[music]
The next bullish catalyst, the earning
season. Earnings expectations for Q4.
The bar is actually pretty low.
>> The fundamental issue is really about
earnings realization.
>> This is a moment of pause. Maybe 2026 is
not going to be as smooth as a lot of
people are anticipating.
>> There is still room to run here.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. [music]
Coming into Wednesday, pulling back from
a record. The equity market rally
stalling as precious metals hit fresh
all-time highs while investors are
waiting for another round of bank
earnings on Wall Street and a possible
Supreme Court opinion on the president's
liberation day tariffs. [music] A
stacked Wednesday coming up.
>> Absolutely. And banks have to be in
focus. Not even so much about how
profitable these Wall Street [music]
banks are and how well they are
weathering some of these storms of deal
making what's going on the trading desk.
It's about the populist policies [music]
coming out of this administration. The
second question or the first question
was either about Fed independence or
credit cards to [music] JP Morgan
yesterday and they can't even imagine a
scenario where you get this 10% [music]
cap. How challenging is that going to be
on the earnings calls today for the
likes of Bank of America, City, and
Wells Fargo? What is it about JP Morgan
earnings [music] and the seauite on the
earnings call that we never talk about
the earnings we end up talking about
other things?
>> Well, it's almost self-inflicted [music]
in some sense. Also, you have to think
the credit card drama [music]
right now, which by the way, it is not
law. This isn't happening anytime soon.
It may never become law. [music]
Remember, this was introduced last year
by Senator Bernie Sanders and Senator
Josh Holly. Congress would need to enact
[music] this to be a law for there to be
a 10% cap on credit card interest rates.
But this reminds me of the third quarter
[music] where cockroaches became the
entire buzzword of the earning season
for these banks [music] because Jamie
Diamond said when there's one cockroach
there may be another. Now we're talking
about credit cards.
>> The headlines all about White House
policy in the last 24 hours. Not the
fact the bank put up massive numbers
[music] and the stock still fell by 4%.
We can get into that a little bit later
this hour. We'll hear from Bank of
America. We'll hear from Wells Fargo.
Later on this morning, [music] we'll
hear from City. and maybe a little bit
later on this afternoon, later this
morning, later today, we'll hear from
the Supreme Court. Supreme Court
opinions and the potential that they
rule on those Liberation Day tariffs.
>> We're waiting for this. So, basically,
[music] Supreme Court has told us they
will have another opinion day. This is
the second opinion day of the year.
[music] So, potentially we will get that
decision. And the president was in
Detroit yesterday. He talked about this.
He said, "Can you believe the Supreme
[music] Court is trying to go after my
tariffs? This is a national security
concern." He said the lawsuits are
coming from individuals that want to
cozy up to [music] China and they're
part of the foreign policy centric
crowd. But he did say something
interesting. Quote, "We'll figure
something out if [music] we don't win.
Tariffs are here to stay, Jonathan." He
said, "Out of all the words in the
world, it's still his favorite."
>> A couple of goals regarding tariffs.
One, of course, is to bring
manufacturing home. The other was to put
pressure on the Chinese to get them
[music] to change their economic model.
Check out these numbers. Exports to the
US dropped 20% from China in 2025. And
yet still China put up a record [music]
trade surplus
>> because they're going to Latin America,
they're going to Africa, they're going
to the [music] European Union, which is
going to have a huge problem as we
continue to see the Chinese industry
really hallow out their own industry
[music] when it comes to China. I
thought this was rich. The Financial
Times caught this. The vice minister of
the General Administration of Customs of
China basically blamed [music] the
United States. It should be pointed out
that some count's policies and politics
regarding economic and trade issues
using various [music] pretexts to
restrict exports of high-tech products
to China. Otherwise, we would have more
imports. So, basically blaming their
record rise of exports [music] on
Washington.
>> More on the trade story a little bit
later this hour. And of course, later on
this morning, 8:15 [music] Eastern time,
do not miss Lisa's conversation with the
Delta Airlines CEO Ed Bastian. We'll
catch up with Lisa a little bit later
this morning. If you're [music] just
joining us, welcome to the program.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 pointing
towards another day of losses were down
by 0.5%
[music] on the S&P. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Aaron Kennard of
Clear Harbor Asset Management with
stocks looking for direction. Ed Mills
of Raymond James as President [music]
Trump says Jamie Diamond is wrong about
Fed independence and Chris Marinac of
Jenny Montgomery Scott with big bank
earnings in full swing. We begin this
hour with stocks pulling back and metals
at fresh record highs. Aaron, Canada,
Clear Harbor Asset Management, writing,
"Markets have likely pulled forward some
future returns. While US exceptionalism
should persist, valuations still
matter." Aaron joins us now for more.
Aaron, welcome to the program. Good to
see you. Let's just pick up on those
bank earnings. We'll get more later this
hour. What was the lesson? What did we
learn from what we heard from JP Morgan
and what we saw in the stock price
reaction?
>> I think it was interesting, Jonathan.
What we heard was that sales and trading
was active. Um and underwriting was a
little a little little weak. It's it's
the fourth quarter. They had a great
full year. Um it wouldn't surprise me if
a lot of this we start we actually see
push forward into Q1. M&A activity could
could pick up and become more active
late into the fourth quarter. We could
see, you know, just a little le less
tempo to the to the cadence of M&A
activity. But let's not forget JP
Morgan's stock is is not cheap. It's a
great bank, but it's trading at, you
know, sort of nosebleleed multiples to
tangible book. And even the seauite at
JP Morgan knows that, which is why
they're not buying back their stock.
>> The company is doing really well. The
stock's a different story. So, Aaron,
let's stay on the stock story. Can you
give those pockets of weakness a pass
when the stock is so richly valued?
>> I think so. I think if you look longer
term, Jonathan, I think the the story
for the banks uh both JP Morgan and
other mega banks in the US is is quite
strong. I think they have a reach not
just into the US consumer but also JP
Morgan into emerging markets and Marie
pointed out the the the China trade
trends in EM and Latin America. And I
think um the the likes of JP Morgan are
very active in those regions. And if you
look at the rising middle class economic
activity um between China and and the EM
and economic activity from a banking
perspective between the US banks and and
some of these areas of real global
growth going forward, I think they're
reasonably well positioned here.
>> Amry also mentioned the biggest stories
of the last 24 hours. The main takeaway
from earnings day wasn't the earnings
and it was the push back on the earnings
call to what we're hearing from the
White House and this populist twist
that's kind of dominating the early part
of 2026. How is that influencing if if
at all your approach to allocating
capital for the year ahead?
>> Well, it's interesting because the stock
market is reacting uh particularly the
financials and not just the banks but
the Visas and the Mastercards, they're
reacting negatively to this news and it
does require an act of Congress. So I is
the market sort of reading the tea
leaves and thinking that you know the
president is going to be able to nudge
Congress into voting for this because it
does represent a good dose of populism
perhaps. Uh I I'm a bit skeptical though
that this will become a reality from the
standpoint of law and in in reality if
you were to move the prime rate from 20%
average credit card rates are about 20%
down to 10 as he would like to see it. I
think the only thing it does is hurt the
consumers that he's trying to attract to
go to the polls and vote for Republicans
in the midterms.
>> But Aaron, why
>> they'll lose they'll lose their lines of
credit.
>> But Aaron, I'm I'm with you on this is
halfbaked in the sense that it's just a
truth social about this January 20th
idea that we're going to have interest
rates capped on credit cards. It
actually has to go through Congress and
there have been laws floating or bills
floating that these the Senate and the
House have not taken up. So why does the
market react to truths and not actually
when something is done a legal framework
that's signed off into law?
>> Well, if he somehow just sort of like
offshore wind declares it a national
emergency, maybe there is a period where
of a few months where this has to work
its way through the courts um to to to
then um m make make the case that this
is this is not in the purview of the
executive branch of government and
requires legislative action. And so, you
know, maybe there's a real concern
around that at least temporarily.
>> The market has shrugged off though Fed
independence for the most part. Why is
that?
Well, I I I think at the end of the day,
uh the Fed Bal h has has a a a group of
voting members around him that I believe
um whether or not they agree with him or
not, believe that he is um looking at
the data as he sees it and trying to
make the best case for his view and uh
on behalf of the American people. And I
think it's a it's it's a sad day when
you have the executive branch of
government suggesting that just because
a Fed uh Federal Reserve FOMC committee
in in totality because of course he's
only one vote um is is moving rates
lower but just not quickly enough. I
mean we did see 100 basis point cut in
24. We saw 75 basis point cut in 25 but
that's not fast enough. So maybe uh he's
a criminal and we have to put him behind
bars and we're going to use this this
silly idea that there's a cost overrun
at at the Fed renovation for this. Uh
just just doesn't seem to be it seems uh
you know below uh below us as a country.
I think we can do better and hopefully
this will will pass.
>> Tracking the story of the last 12
months. I understand the importance of
it. I understand the concern but check
out the bond market. Aaron 10's at 415
this morning down three basis points
incred incredibly rangebound. We open up
this morning by talking about these
record highs in gold and silver and
precious metals and metals more broadly.
What can you speak to that explains some
of the all-time highs we're seeing in
precious metals and just this very cool
calm collected bond market that's
dominated the last several months?
>> Well, I think investors to be fair are
keeping their eye on the ball.
[clears throat] And what is that ball?
that ball is the big beautiful bill is
going to start to funnel significant
stimulus into the economy and the part
of the consumer as of Jan 1. It's also
going to we're going to see accelerated
depreciation on the industrial side.
That's a huge potential um growth
catalyst. And I think what the market is
telling us when you look at the metal
side, Jonathan, and it's not just gold
to your point, it's silver, it's tin,
it's aluminum, it's platinum, starting
to get into the industrial side of
things up mid single digits already this
year or double digits in some some
cases. This this is a growth story. And
we've gone from a period where the last
super cycle in commodities was very much
a, you know, one that was based on
globalization, the demand side. Now
we're in this period of fragmentation.
And I would argue that we're noticing
for national security purposes and and
other reasons that that that
fragmentation behooves us to ensure that
we have uh uh metals that are required
to build missiles, metals that are
required to build out the AI uh
infrastructure both home and and with
our allies. And and that is, I think,
one of the core reasons why we're
starting to see this super cycle perhaps
restart again, but in a different way.
>> Certainly not a trade that started this
year. We saw it throughout the whole of
last year as well. Gold was higher by
some 65% last year as you pointed out up
around 7% already a year to date. How
are you thinking about playing the story
through 26?
>> I I think the metals story has legs. I
think the gold story has has legs at the
end of the day. Uh gold is I believe
just an another currency. It's just not
a fiat currency. If you look at central
bank buying outside the United States,
particularly among people uh entities
that are not as friendly with us, read
Russia, China and and others, their net
gold purchases over the last couple of
years has skyrocketed. If you look at
foreign reserves of gold from just 2020
to today, it's gone from like 6 to 22%
of of central bank foreign reserves. I
think that bid continues. I don't see
any reason why it wouldn't. And in fact,
if China's trading less with the United
States, as you pointed at the top of the
hour, and they're doing more business
with Latin American emerging markets
more generally, um I think that's a case
for them to be doing trade trades in
those countries, receiving that currency
back and putting into gold reserves
instead of buying euro denominated fixed
income in dollar denominated fixed
income on the margin.
>> Gold up 1% so far this morning. Aaron,
good to see you. Aaron Canon there at
Clear Harbor Asset Management. Busy
morning ahead of us late to this hour.
numbers from Bank of America, Wells
Fargo, City a few hours away. Plus,
we'll get some data. 8:30 Eastern time,
PPI, and US retail sales. Before we get
to all of that, let's get you an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. President
Donald Trump dismissing JP Morgan CEO
Jamie Diamond's criticism [music] over
the DOJ probe into the Federal Reserve.
The president saying Diamond was wrong
to suggest he was undermining the
independence of the central [music]
bank. The president saying, quote, I
think it's fine what I'm doing. We have
a bad Fed person.
The president also weighing in on Iran,
telling the Iranian people to continue
protesting against Supreme Leader Ayatah
Ali Hameini's [music] regime. The
president saying he'll quote, "Act
accordingly once he gets a sense of how
many demonstrators have been killed."
[music] The US-based human rights
activists news agency reporting more
than 2500 people have died in more than
two weeks of protests.
Netflix is working on revised terms for
its Warner Brothers bid and is
discussing an old cash offer for the
[music] company's studios and streaming
businesses. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the changes are designed to
speed up a sale that could take months
to [music] close and faces push back
from politicians as well as a hostile
bid from Paralon Sky Dance. [music] And
that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Vonyie, thank you. More from Vonyie
in about 30 minutes time. [music] Up
next on the program, President Trump
taking on Jamie Diamond.
>> I think it's fine what I'm doing. We
have a bad Fed person. He was extended
by Biden. And yeah, I think he's wrong.
I think it's wrong. He's uh he's done a
bad job. We should have lower rates.
Jamie Diamond probably wants higher
rates. Maybe he makes more money that
way.
>> That conversation up next with Ed Mills
of Raymond James live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> 24 hours coming up packed with [music]
bank earnings. It kicks off later on
this morning. Later on this hour, you'll
hear from Bank of America and Wells
Fargo City as well reporting later this
morning onto tomorrow. GMA Sachs [music]
and Morgan Stanley. Also some data at
8:30 Eastern time PPI and US retail
sales for the broader equity market. We
went three days without losses. That
changed yesterday on the S&P 500
pointing towards the first back-to-back
[music] losses on the S&P 500
potentially for the new year. On the S&P
500 this morning, we're down by 0.4. On
the Nasdaq, we're negative by 0.6. Under
Sylvanas this morning, President Trump
taking on Jamie Diamond.
>> I think it's fine what I'm doing. We
have a bad Fed purse. He was extended by
Biden. And yeah, I think he's wrong. I
think it's wrong. He's uh he's done a
bad job. We should have lower rates.
Jaime Diamond probably wants higher
rates. Maybe he makes more money that
way.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump targeting JP
Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond. Trump
dismissing Diamond suggesting the DOJ's
probe into the Federal Reserve will have
consequences for the economy. Joining us
now from Washington is Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Good morning, Tyler. Certainly
a big feature of the news flow in the
last day or so.
>> Yeah. Hey John, good morning. Well, this
is really just the latest friction point
between Wall Street and President Trump
during a week where we have seen
heightened attacks on the Federal
Reserve, but also a slew of policy
proposals that big banks don't like.
Now, President Trump's push back against
Jaime Diamond is also notable because at
first, this White House appeared to try
to distance itself from the
investigation with the press secretary
saying that President Trump did not have
knowledge of nor ordered it. But now it
appears that the president is throwing
his apparent support behind it and also
went on to tell reporters that he does
intend to push ahead with plans to name
his pick to lead the Federal Reserve in
the next few weeks in his words despite
this investigation posing potential
problems to the confirmation process on
Capitol Hill. Now, yesterday, President
Trump was in Michigan and he went on to
defend his idea to cap credit card
interest rates at 10% for a year and
also double down on his call for
legislation that would crack down on
credit card swipe fees. This on the
heels of Bloomberg News reporting for
people familiar with the matter that big
bank executives are considering some
potential options they could put on the
table and present to the administration
in a bid to get President Trump to back
off some of these ideas ahead of what is
expected to be a massive lobbying
campaign on Capitol Hill against them
though it may not get to that House
Speaker Mike Johnson Senate Majority
Leader John Thun yesterday appeared to
throw cold water over the credit card
cap interest rate proposal citing
concerns that millions of Americans
could be at risk of losing their credit.
But John, I will point out, Jonath also
said that he does think that the credit
card competition act, that bipartisan
bill that would take aim at swip fees,
will get a vote at some point this year
as Republicans go on the defense over
cost of living issues and demands from
President Trump that they get on board
with his more populist messaging.
>> These stories not going away, Tyler,
thank you. Tyler Kendall down in
Washington. We'll have more from Tyler
later on this morning. In another world,
I'd say the president's right. These
bankers want higher rates to make more
money. Unfortunately, when it comes to
these policies that are being
recommended at the moment by the White
House, the warning you're hearing in the
last 24 hours, I think it's agreed by a
lot of people on Wall Street that these
kind of policy proposals could lead to
an otherwise unjustified tightening of
financial conditions. High rates or
chilling of credit availability. They're
the kind of things this president, this
White House does not want to see.
>> Right? You put a cap on something, that
means you're going to have less of
something. And it might be actually
harder, especially individuals in lower
income, to actually get access to having
the ability to use a credit card, which
is why you're seeing a tremendous amount
of push back from a lot of economists.
You see a lot of these bank CEOs not
just trying to curry favor the president
of United States calling Treasury, but
if they have to, to Tyler's point,
they're thinking about potential credit
card that they could come out with that
has a lower rate maybe for certain
individuals. But this is going to be a
year-long story, especially since you
have two bills circulating right now in
Congress.
>> Ed Mills with us now of Raymond James.
Ed, welcome to the program, sir. Always
good to hear from you. I've been told
this is just populist bark. There's no
bite. Do you think there could be a bite
later this year?
>> Um, it possible. Um, John, I think that
the uh bigger issue for a lot of folks
uh that I've talked to is uh that
interchange bill, that credit card
competition act. Um there is not a sense
that we could see in Congress a cap on
those credit card interest rates. Uh
we've examined this. There's no
executive authority uh even using
emergency authority that exists uh to
put this through. But um a lot of
investors are nervous u for a couple
reasons. One uh when Donald Trump says
something often times he goes out with
the most extreme position and then
negotiates into something that will be
considered reasonable later. So a lot of
questions is it going to be 36%? Is
there something else out there? And then
from an investor perspective, one thing
that we've talked a lot about at Raymond
James is oftent times for financials,
you need a hundred reasons to own them,
one reason to sell them. Investors are
starting to warm up to financials again.
And now all of a sudden, out of the
blue, we start bombarded with some of
these one-offs that get a lot of people
asking, can you sustain a rally in this
group if you're going to have that
policy risk?
>> Yeah. For the fourth quarter, credit
cards are the new cockroaches. when it
comes to this legislation potentially in
Congress. So, you think the competition
bill has a lot more legs than the actual
cap on credit card interest rates?
>> Yeah. Amarie, so um back when I worked
on Capitol Hill, one of the signature
bills that I worked on for a couple
years was the Card Act. Um it's hanging
up here on my wall, uh which imp
implemented all the consumer protections
around credit cards. So, this is
something I've worked on for uh more
than 20 years. And what I've seen is
there's not a lot of support for rate
caps because there are concerns about
credit availability. Um, however, on
Interchange, uh, it's a just a
completely different fight. You have two
really well-hailled lobbies, uh, the
retailers versus the banks. Uh, we've
had Durban in the past strike lightning
in the bottle and change the interchange
rates on debit card transactions. Um
Marshall, a Republican from Kansas, used
the kind of push by Donald Trump on rate
caps to get him onto this bill on credit
card competition. And whenever there's a
vote on something, Amarie, that can be
the whole ballgame. There's been a
concerted effort since the Durban
amendment passed back in uh 2010 on
credit card inter or debit card
interchange to never have another vote
on this because when there's a vote,
it's unpredictable. I still don't think
it passes, but the risk is higher on the
interchange bill than the cap on
interest rates.
>> So, do you think the banks are
overreacting a little bit?
>> I think what the banks are doing is
they're trying to figure out what they
can do to put a cap on the risk. Um, is
there something that they can do kind of
from a business perspective to get
Donald Trump to focus elsewhere? He is
very focused on affordability. um they
are having a huge list of other things
that they want to see happen uh in DC.
The deregulatory agenda is a big
tailwind for the banks. Um so if they
don't do something on credit cards, does
some of the other parts of the
deregulatory agenda get sidelined? Do
they not get the relief that they're
expecting on tailoring or capital return
on stress tests? There's so many things
that the banks have going right now in
DC. They don't want this to be the thing
that stops all the other benefits that
they're getting out of federal
regulators.
>> Ed, what's been your reaction to the
communication with the mayor of New
York? Your reaction to the communication
with the senator from Massachusetts.
What's the strategy there for the White
House?
>> You know, part of the reason that Donald
Trump was able to get elected in 2016
and again in 2024 uh was tapping into
populism. Uh there was a crossover
between Bernie Sanders voters and folks
that have voted for Donald Trump in the
general election. Um it is not a
surprise to me that he has embraced some
of these conversations in the credit
card 10% cap. That's a Bernie Sanders
bill uh with Josh Holly, a Republican
from Missouri. Uh but he is tapping into
things that he knows are popular with
voters. He sees what Mandami was able to
do in the primary uh being able to win
in New York. tapping into an energy that
he tapped into himself and seeing if he
can get that for the midterm elections
because he sees a midterm elections with
increasing headwinds. And when he sees
headwinds, he and he alone thinks that
he can fix the problem. At how big is
that group of voters that aren't married
to a political party, but tap into these
very ideas?
>> You know, it's at least 10%. I think
that there is um a good number of folks
who look at DC and don't think that
they're on their side. Uh they think
that things are unaffordable. And so
when we have affordability as his pitch,
he thinks that that's an opportunity uh
to bring those voters or keep those
voters on his side. Uh so we're going to
have a Davos speech that focuses on
housing. We're going to focus on energy
and that going to brings in Venezuela.
We're focusing on the cost of credit.
the fight with uh Jay Powell. He's not
going to say it's a fight about kind of
independence. It's about a fight about
how much it cost you to run your life.
And affordability is a much better place
to put your kind of center that
political fight versus a fight over
independence, which most voters don't
really focus on Fed independence. It's
much more the market that does. It's a
hugely important thing, but it's not
something that sways the average voter.
John,
>> they'll feel it if it falls. That's for
sure. Ed, thank you. Absolutely. Ed
Mills [music] of Raymond James. They'll
feel it with higher rates.
>> They will fill it with higher rates. But
also [music] one thing to note, when
there is polling done about the highest
ranking politicians, J Pal came up on
top ahead of everyone.
>> It's incredible. We'll talk more about
central bank independence in just a
moment. We'll catch up with Veronica
Clark of City. Also looking ahead to the
latest read on inflation and retail
sales in America.
>> [music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Equity futures down by
0.4% on the S&P 500. We went 3 days
[music] without losses and now we're
looking at backto-back losses for the
first time this year on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ 100, we're down by 0.6%. [music]
As we count you down to the opening
bell, let's get you some morning movers.
Let's cross over to Yahara for more. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. Gold, silver, all hitting
record highs and that is powering mining
stocks [music] this morning as a few
powerful factors come together. We had
that softer CPI print yesterday [music]
fueling expectations for Fed rate cuts
plus all the political pressure we've
seen [music] mounting on the Fed fueling
the debasement trade. So we are seeing
Barrett Gold up 1.4% [music]
and First Majestic Silver up 2.5%.
Meanwhile, we are seeing Netflix shares
rising 2% in the [music] pre-market
honor reporting that Netflix is
considering making an allcash offer for
[music] Warner Brothers Discovery to
speed up a sale in a fight that has
turned increasingly contentious. Just
this week, we had Paramount Skyance
[music] saying that it was suing and
planning to nominate directors to the
board of Warner Brothers as it continues
its [music] aggressive pursuit of the
media company. And we end on China's
biggest online [music] travel platform.
Its ADRs are falling more than 10% in
the pre-market on news that China's
market watchdog has launched an [music]
antirust probe on it just ahead of the
busy Lunar New Year uh travel period.
This is the same regulator that
investigated Alibaba and that led to a
[music] record fine. Trip.com does say
it has cooperated. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yahara in the next hour. I
promised you some bank earnings, so here
they are. The latest [music] from Wells
Fargo Crossing just moments ago with
those numbers. Here's Danny Burger. Hey,
Danny.
>> John, it is a miss. The big number
coming in on net interest income. This
is the one sending shares lower coming
in for the quarter at 12.3 billion. The
estimate was for 12.4 billion. Uh at the
same time, their fees uh those did miss
too on investment banking. $716 million
is where it comes in. The estimate was
just for under $800 million. Uh
expenses, those are also higher, 13.7
billion. The estimate was for 13.6
billion. Average total loans that is
higher too, as is deposits that were
estimated. So, just to recap, it is
higher expenses, worse than expected net
interest income, worse than expected
investment banking fees. Those are going
to be some of the more important
numbers, John, because this is a Wells
Fargo that is trying to grow more
aggressively. This is only the second
quarter where Wells Fargo doesn't have
its asset cap provision, something that
the Federal Reserve put on it in 2018
after a string of scandals tied around
improper uh customer practices. So, they
had targeted really aggressive growth
for both its investment banking, for
loans, for its deposits, too. Of course,
loans coming in a little bit better than
expected, as did deposits, but it's
going to be an issue for them. They're
also seeing their total expenses for
2026 at $55.7
billion. Uh that's about a little bit
higher than it was for 2025. So, that's
not great news either. Uh just want to
lay out what they see for their view of
net interest income for 2026. They're
seeing $50 billion. That's a miss. The
estimate was for $50.2
billion. Uh again, Wells Fargo putting
in the commentary here that they are
targeting uh increased increased growth.
The CFO saying that they are now excited
to compete on a level playing field, but
for now, John, the numbers aren't
matching up to what the expectations
were.
>> Well, let's get to it, Danny. So, that
headline from the CEO, excited to now
compete on a level playing field. You
nailed it. Played by the asset cap for
so long. To what extent do you think
investors will give this company a pass
this morning because they've got a
better story to tell about the future?
John, the issue is is that these shares
have been outperforming. So investors
have been giving them room to grow.
They've rallied 34% in 2025. That
compares to a 14% for the S&P Financials
index. Of course, they are coming from a
lower level than a lot of the other
banks. So maybe there is some room for
investors to give them the time. But
John, this is the story for all the bank
earnings this quarter that they are
trading at rich valuations. So now is
the time to show up with the animal
spirits reignited in this market.
>> We saw that with JP Morgan yesterday. A
small miss, some pockets of weakness
just in certain places. Overall okay,
but that's not enough given the rally
we've seen over the last year. JP Morgan
stock yesterday down 4% in early trading
this morning. Wales is down about 0.8%
in about 10 minutes time. Should get
numbers from Bank of America. We'll
check in with Danny in about 10 minutes
time. Danny, thank you. Wells Fargo
there down by 0.8%. On our radar this
morning, some of our top stories.
President Donald Trump urging Iranians
to continue protesting, saying help is
on the way without specifying what that
means. The president adding he will act
accordingly once assessing how many
demonstrators have been killed.
Elsewhere, the US Supreme Court
releasing decisions at 10 a.m. Eastern
time, including a possible ruling on the
legality of President Trump's Liberation
Day tariffs. The justices will determine
if the White House bypassed Congress to
unconstitutionally tax trade. And
finally, China's trade surplus surging
to a record $1.2 2 trillion in 2025,
fueled by a jump in global exports. The
US share of Chinese exports falling to a
historic low of 11% last year.
>> So what China is doing is they're just
finding other markets that they could
sell to or others may view as dumping on
other markets. Southeast Asia, Latin
America, Europe, which is going to have
a big problem in terms of what we've
already seen China in terms of hallowing
out their big industries. What I find
just precious and rich this morning is a
comment from a Chinese official talking
about the fact that well actually we
wouldn't have this big of a surplus. It
would be more balanced. And has it ever
been balanced? But they're saying it
would be more balanced if we didn't have
these export controls and high tariff
rates and we can import more when it
comes to the high tech sector from the
United States. But China, they will find
other places to push their all their
goods.
>> Look, goals matter, objectives matter.
and listening to the Treasury Secretary
over the last year in our conversations
with him. If you asked him about tariffs
and what the goal was want to bring
manufacturing and production home and
the other and I think it was a big push
from Treasury and this Treasury
Secretary to push the Chinese to change
their economic model and to reduce their
dependence on exports. Obviously things
are working to some extent to bring
manufacturing comb to reduce exports but
what you're seeing elsewhere the trade
surplus is at a record. If you want the
Chinese to trade, to change their
economic model, you need the Europeans
to come along with you. And you're not
seeing enough on that front.
>> The Europeans also maybe some countries
in Southeast Asia, especially look
what's going on in India. The United
States is still negotiating a pack
there. Could India potentially also put
up some walls when it comes to China,
Latin America. What I found so
interesting about the Treasury
Secretary, he constantly would talk
about China needs to rebalance their
economy. They need more of domestic
consumption. He once described it to me
as that film Fantasia from Disney. You
mop and there's a floor, but you just
continues to have a spill and it just
continuously cyclical. And we're seeing
that play out in the numbers.
>> No big signs that is changing anytime
soon over in China. Let's focus on the
US economy. Traders adding to rate cut
bets following yesterday's cooler than
expected CPI print. More data on deck
this morning. PPI and retail sales at
8:30 a.m. Eastern time. Veronica Clark
of City writing, "Further shifting in
inflation risks away from the upside
should have Fed officials more
comfortable. Cutting interest rates
further in March, July, and September."
Veronica joins us now for more.
Veronica, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thanks for
>> Let's get to those disinflationary
tailwinds into 26. What's the source of
that disinflation?
>> Yeah, all this Q4 data is of course
really hard to read. We had a lot of
measurement issues around the government
shutdown. We saw that with the November
data. Um, but I do think it is worth
saying that we were expecting to see
more of a rebound, a payback just
mechanical from that week November in
the December CPI that we got yesterday.
We didn't see that. Um, and if you go
even before the government shutdown, we
had some pretty soft readings for
September. Um, I think that's a number
of months now where we've been
consistently surprised lower and there's
a lot of weird details still, but that
is a pretty consistent surprise lower on
inflation.
>> Inflation closer to three than it is to
two still. That's a problem. What
convinces you and a team that it's going
to be closer to two than three in the
months to
>> come? All the forwardlooking indicators
that we have for really important
components of consumer prices. Um here
I'm thinking specifically of shelter
inflation. You can, you know, look at
home prices, market rents, new market
rent data. Those tend to lead shelter
inflation by anywhere from a year, year
and a half, 9 months. Um they've been
abnormally weak for all of 2025. I do
have a lot of confidence that shelter
inflation and CPI, which is running
normal, could have a period where it's
softer than normal.
>> How much is lower energy prices
contributing to what we're seeing in
inflation?
>> Yeah, it's it's part of it. Obviously,
you know, gas prices are falling, but
then you do have strength in electricity
and and things like that. Um, that's
always a concern for how that might feed
into, you know, maybe goods production,
you know, transportation kind of
components of core inflation. Um, of
course, when we look at core inflation,
we exclude those those energy costs. Um,
but I would say I mean oil prices lower
again, home prices slowing, you know,
wage growth that's slowing more. Most of
those inflationary pressures are are not
as prevalent as they were a couple years
ago.
>> I bring this up because the president
recently was talking about how it's huge
deflationary across the entire board. He
said your donuts go into trucks that get
then transported to you, but I look at
food at home and restaurant and that
actually inflation is increasing as
they're trying to have this
affordability push.
>> Yeah. Yeah. The the pass through is
never very, you know, you can't estimate
it very precisely. Um, and so yeah, I
would be a bit cautious on on just
thinking that lower energy prices are
going to mean, you know, softer
inflation, but it's not just energy.
It's it's the home prices and the wages
and everything else, too.
>> How are you pairing this view on
inflation with your view on the labor
market?
>> Yeah, I think they actually can kind of
go hand in hand. Um, because I I am
still concerned that this is a labor
market that is gradually weakening. Um,
it's really been three years now where
the unemployment rate has increased
something like 4/10en of a percent every
year. That's a really abnormal slow
increase in unemployment. Um but that is
what is supposed to happen. You see a
weakening labor market maybe because
rates are restrictive and that's what
slows inflation and it makes sense that
we're seeing slower inflation.
>> The Fed's been cutting interest rates
though and people are talking up the
prospect of tax refunds over the next
several months and I think a lot of
people are communicating a solid story
for the US economy for the year ahead.
So why is the labor market being left
behind?
>> Yeah, I mean that's what we've seen for
the last three years though, right?
We've seen really resilient growth.
We'll get retail sales data this
morning. Consumer spending has still
been strong. Um, obviously part of
growth is also AI related investment,
things like that. Um, which is not going
to be so labor intensive. So maybe
that's not supporting the labor market
as much. Um, but yeah, we've had three
years now of of pretty consistent, you
know, very gradual weakening in the
labor market, but people are still
spending and and still resilient. Um,
but I would worry that as we get to ever
higher levels for the unemployment rate
and aggregate job growth is slowing,
aggregate incomes are slowing, that is a
headwind for consumption. JP Morgan
recently came out with a note saying no
more cuts this year. Maybe they're
saying hike next year. You have three
cuts for this year.
>> Yeah.
>> Does what's going on with the Fed change
how you're thinking about the cuts?
>> Not particularly. You mean the drama?
>> Yeah, the drama of course. Um no, not
not in a in a big way. Um you know, I do
think, you know, Chair Powell, most Fed
officials are going to still make, you
know, decisions of course based on the
the data at hand. um they will know that
not cutting rates because the president
wants you to is just as bad as cutting
rates because the president wants you
to. Um so I don't think that that's
going to be a big influence this year.
>> Veronica Clark of City. Veronica, thank
you. Thank you very much. Joining us for
the latest call on the Federal Reserve
looking for cuts, three cuts throughout
this year. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Wells Fargo out with its
fourth quarter earnings reporting
revenue that missed the [music] streets
expectations. The bank is expecting debt
interest income about $50 billion for
2026. CEO Charlie Shariff saying he's
[music] quote proud of the results.
Japanese Prime Minister Sonay Takayichi
is dissolving the country's parliament.
[music] Sources saying Takichi, who came
to power in October, aims to hold an
election that would allow her to press
[music] ahead with her hawkish
diplomatic agenda and pro- stimulus
economic policies. [music] Takichi says
she'll give more details on the
dissolution next Monday.
The Trump administration is easing
export rules for Nvidia's H200 AI chips
to China. [music]
The US Commerce Department says it will
review applications case by case,
although companies must follow
requirements including certifying no
shortage of the chips in the [music]
United States. Exporters must also limit
shipments to China to 50% of US
production. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie in
about 30 minutes. Up next on the
program, bullish on the big banks. The
outlook is very positive for the banks
when you consider the real GDP growth
probably comes in this year maybe around
2%.
>> More bank earnings up next. We'll catch
up with Chris Marinac of Jenny
Montgomery Scott live from New York
City. You're watching Blendback TV.
[music]
Stocks are down by just 0.4% on the S&P.
We're down by 0.6 six on the NASDAQ 100
and Sylvanas this morning bullish on the
big banks
>> the outlook is very positive for the
banks when you consider the real GDP
growth probably comes in this year maybe
around 2% but more importantly loan
growth has picked up overall they're
over capitalized going to be buying back
stock and most of all you're still going
to get regulatory relief in 2026 [music]
the profitability for the industry is
very strong
>> the bar was high for these guys coming
into earnings season bank for American
could just beat it. Danny has the
numbers. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. The numbers look good. Let's
start with net interest income. This is
not only a beat for the fourth quarter,
but it now represents a new record for
net interest income for a quarter coming
from Bank of America. That figure is
15.75 billion. The estimate was for
15.48 billion. I should also note that's
above the guide that Brian Moahan gave
just one month ago. So he primed this
market for a surprise to the upside. The
good news also for Bank of America is
that their investment banking fees also
outperformed. We recall yesterday that
JP Morgan had a miss when it came to
their saying that some of the deals were
extended into 2026. That does not appear
to be an issue for Bank of America.
Investment banking revenue coming in at
$1.67 billion. The estimate was for just
under that amount. I should point out
that their debt underwriting did miss,
but their trading revenue that is a
beat. $4.5 billion. 4.33 billion was the
estimate. Compensation expenses, those
are a little bit higher, but maybe the
market can overlook that for now. We'll
see how that plays out. This is also a
Brian Moahan, which again just a month
ago have been very bullish on the US
consumer considering Bank of America's
exposure. This is also important to call
out. He continues that bullishness
writing in this release with consumers
and businesses pro proving resilient as
well as the regulatory environment and
tax and trade policies coming into
sharper focus. We expect further
economic growth into the year while any
number of risks continue. We're a
bullish in the US economy in 2026. No
comments as of yet in this release about
what the credit card look ahead is with
that 10% cap. But again, just given Bank
of America's exposure there, we'll be
closely listening to both the media and
analysts call whether Brian Moyahan and
the team at Bank of America get into
that.
>> I think it's fair to say that seauite is
a little bit more diplomatic and less
confrontational. Danny, but I'll be all
ears as well looking ahead to that
earnings call a little bit later on.
Danny, this seuite's coming off the back
of an investor today. The CFO saying,
"We enter 26 focused on improved
profitability, focused on driving core
growth." How big is this year for BFA
and the team?
>> It looks like it's going to be another
really big year. I mean, they are
guiding for some serious big deals are
involved in a railroad one that's going
to be coming in 2026, which I should
point out Wells Fargo is pointing to as
well. But it's it's both sides of Bank
of America's business, which they're
leading to hoping for a big year. So for
2026, their net interest income growth
is going to be f 5 to 7%. For the first
quarter, they see that growth coming in
at 1% too. They're expecting to deliver
200 basis points of operating leverage
in 2026.
Expenses, yes, those look up to be about
4%, but it's something that JP Morgan
was trying to hint at as well, John,
that they can become uh more efficient.
They can get that productivity boost
from different investments. And then you
have the deals tailwind and what they
see is still a strong economy. So this
is a bank guiding to a very strong 2026.
>> Danny Burer with the update. More from
Danny later this morning. Remember City
reporting earnings in about an hour from
now. Chris Marinac of Johnny Montgomery.
Scott joins us now for more. Chris,
welcome to the program. So yesterday we
had some decent numbers from JP Morgan,
some pockets of weakness and the stock
fell 4%. This morning we've got a series
of beats from Bank of America and the
stock is up by a few ten of 1%. Chris,
is there something that we can take away
from the early reaction to some of these
decent numbers?
>> Well, I think the market tends to sell
the sell the news, John. So, I'm not
surprised by that at all. I was enthused
to see the very strong credit details at
Bank of America just a minute ago. You
know, commercial losses are down,
overall losses are down uh link quarter.
That's a very good thing. That's going
to create some flexibility on credit
costs for the company. So if they can
continue to grow revenue both on topline
spread as well as in the investment
banking channel, it's a very good year
for BAC. I think the stock has sniffed
this out several weeks ago. So that's
why you see some profit taking both
yesterday and perhaps uh today won't be
as bullish. But I think at the end of
the day, it's still a very good setup
for the first quarter and for the full
year.
>> The commentary for the full year is
pretty solid. We're bullish on the US
economy for 2026. Chris, is it that
simple? If the economy does well, these
companies do well. These stocks should
do well.
I agree with that, John. I think that
absolutely is the case. It doesn't have
to be rocket science when it comes to
how banks act. You know, they're still
inexpensive relative to the S&P. I mean,
we used to see these stocks trade at 60
to 70% of the S&P and now it's less than
50. So, there still is a comeback on
valuation. So, if you can have the
economy move forward, these companies
are poised to make a lot of money.
There's real operating leverage in the
business. And again, credit uh costs, I
think, can be tame and that really helps
the bottom line. Can they also be
contained if we do get more populist
policies out of Washington? I'm looking
at their presentation. They've added 3.8
million new credit card accounts.
Yesterday for JP Morgan, it was north of
10 million. Are they less vulnerable to
some of these policies?
>> Well, everyone's vulnerable in the big
bank channel, I think, because there are
um you know, a concentration of the only
a few large banks who do credit card
lending. Everybody else in the industry
doesn't do much of it. The question is
what will really happen with these
credit card changes. I think a lot of
proposals fall fall dead at the end of
the day. So, I'm not convinced this will
go through, but even if it does, I think
these companies are very resilient.
They're very well positioned on capital
reserves, and I think ultimately they
can pivot if they need to.
>> Is there anything you don't like out of
this report from Bank of America?
>> Well, we'd like to see more deposit
growth. Uh deposits were positive, but
certainly we'd love to see more. You
know, the industry had a really good
fourth quarter on deposits overall, both
in terms of US deposits as well as the
money markets and the fund channel. So,
you know, that te's up for good
liquidity. I think we're going to see
more earning assets growth as the LCR
roles get a little lighter for the big
banks. So, we didn't see that in the
fourth quarter, but I think you'll see
that in in 1 Q and 2Q.
>> How do you want to play the sector this
year, Chris? Looking across the big and
small banks, looking ahead to numbers
from City later this morning and Morgan
Stanley and the likes of GMA Saxs
tomorrow.
So, John, the big banks have had a huge
run in the last two to three months. I
think your midsize and smaller banks are
still in a catch-up mo moment. Uh, not
that the large banks aren't going to do
well, but I think that you can see a a
catch-up trade in the midcaps. Um,
that's one of the reasons we like the
first citizens and fifths and even
further down to Winrust and Pinnacle.
Those companies can have a better uh
valuation pickup. I think overall the
business for all these companies will
still be good for the year. From the
standpoint of investor sentiment, do you
think those smaller names are more
insulated by the onslaught of headlines
coming from the White House?
>> Absolutely. And I think that the White
House still likes community banks and I
think ultimately that's going to help
the small cap and even midcap companies.
There is definitely a movement to
support uh the the banking industry
across all asset sizes. It's not just
for the banks. When you look at the tra
different policies coming out of the
administration, trade tax deregulation,
but at the same time going after
potentially banks when it comes to this
push for when it comes to credit cards
and the interest rate cap, how do you
think the banks rate doing business in
this environment with this
administration? Because there was a lot
of excitement about deregulation and
potential M&A and then all of a sudden
there's been other policies that have
been headwinds.
So, the biggest change is just the
examiner's attitude. Um, making M&A
easier to close. Those are huge changes.
I think the credit card changes are
noise. Uh, it's unfortunate, but I think
we'll fight that battle and move on to
the bigger picture, which are that the
examiners are going to be a little
easier on the banks. I also think that
M&A approvals are much faster than they
used to be. And we can see large
combinations. I mean what's PNC has
acquired in recent months, Fifth Third
and Comies
up me too type of acquisitions in the
regional banks. So that I think is very
bullish. I think you'll see more
activity uh because of the regulatory
window that's now open.
>> Chris, just quickly top pick. Give us
some names.
>> Fifth Third, First Citizens, Pinnacle,
Win Trust, uh also like a Maris Bank
ABC.
>> There we go. Chris, thank you sir. Chris
Marinac of Jenny McGomery Scott on the
financials. Not just the big players,
the smaller ones as well. A very big
player delivered numbers just a moments
ago. Bank of America. A series of beasts
from them. And this commentary from the
chair and CEO Brian Moahan with this to
say. With consumers and businesses
proving resilient as well as the
regulatory environment and tax and trade
policies coming in a sharper focus. We
expect further economic growth in the
year ahead while any number of risks
continue. We are bullish on the US
economy in 2026.
>> Music to the ears of this White House as
they have this affordability push ahead
of the midterm elections. What I find
interesting though is potentially this
is you know the written statement what
happens on the earnings call when you
start asking more questions about Fed
independent some of the more populist
policies there has been this
deregulatory push which the banks have
welcomed they have really welcomed and
tried from this administration but at
the same time trade policies that's
going to come sharper focus today at
10:00 a.m. A lot of this could be
unwound in terms of the concerns Wall
Street has had on trade policy if the
Supreme Court decides this this morning
to strike down the president's AIPA
tariffs.
>> The stock is positive in the pre-market
up by 1.7%. That's the latest from Bank
of America. Already this hour's numbers
from Bank of America and numbers from
Wells Fargo. In about 1 hour's time,
we'll hear from City [music] tomorrow,
Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. Later
this morning as well, some economic data
for you. PPI and US retail sales. We'll
get that in a few hours time. Up next,
we'll catch up with Andrew BS of Pimco,
the former White House trade official
[music] Kukawit, Steven Kim of Everor,
and David Kelly of JP Morgan. Asset
management. The second [music] hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
The [music] speed limit on the US
economy is inflecting higher.
>> It's a winners and losers economy.
>> The higher end of the K is dominating
the overall picture for where the macro
data is.
>> The K-shaped economy, the K-shaped
market continues. Inflation becomes a
big part of the story. Again,
>> this is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Sured starts right now and
your scores. The price action looks like
this. We're down by 0.4% on the S&P.
Potentially poised for a back-to-back
loss on the S&P 500 [music] for the
first time this year. On the NASDAQ,
we're down by 0.6. For the day ahead, it
looks a little something like this. In
about 60 minutes from now, we should get
numbers from Cityroup. Look out for
that. 30 minutes after that, we'll get
data [music] PPI and retail sales. And
maybe, and I stress maybe, maybe later
this morning, we get some Supreme Court
opinions, a ruling on those Liberation
Day tariffs.
>> I have to say, if we get that ruling
today and Davos's next week and they're
struck down, that's going to be a whole
different Davos for this administration,
[music] potentially countries lining up
to renegotiate their deals. Today in
focus clearly is the banks. Bank of
America pretty incredible quarter for
what they're looking at. And the
commentary once again coming from the
sweet seauite. I know there was some
maybe some um shade thrown yesterday
with Jamie Diamond, [music] but in the
earnings release, he did say we're
seeing a resilient US consumer. Well,
what is Brian Moahan saying today? Well,
any number of risks continue. We're
bullish on the US economy in [music]
2026.
>> The bar is really high for these bank
names. The companies are doing well, but
the stocks have already had a fantastic
run, and I think we saw evidence of that
with JP [music] Morgan yesterday. Decent
numbers, pockets of weakness. Stocks
punish were down 4% this morning. Bank
of America, very good numbers. stock is
up by about [music] 1%. On a morning
like this morning, given the year we've
just had for some of these names, you're
going to [music] need a tremendous beat
to generate a big rally.
>> That's true. They're talking about at
least the CFO those strong liquidity and
capital going into 2026. You do have to
think [music] about JP Morgan yesterday.
They did have what was going on in terms
of bringing on the credit card. Also,
they have a lot of deal flow, but those
deals didn't fish finish in time for the
fourth quarter. So, potentially they
will be able to bring in that revenue
this [music] year. And this is why I
find the bank so interesting at this
exact moment when you have Congress and
the president. The [music] president
even calling someone like Elizabeth
Warren, the president according to Axios
[music] having this text almost feels
like a bromance with Zoran Manni, please
add me to that WhatsApp chat if that
exists. Then you have the banks at this
moment seeing populist truth social
[music] post coming out of this
administration. But a year where they
were pushing for this deregulation push
and it was off to the races for these
financial lenders. This is likely to be
a feature of the media call. The media
[music] call, by the way, is about 10 15
minutes away. It will be interesting to
see how Bank of America handles some of
those questions versus what we heard
from Jamie Diamond and the team
yesterday.
>> Jamie Diamond was a little bit snarky,
was he not to the president of the
United States? And of course, the
president was asked about it and he
[music] said, I think Jamie Diamond is
wrong when it comes to the consequences.
Jaime Diamond said that could be [music]
when it comes to Fed independence in
question. Maybe Brian Moyahan will take
a little bit more of a different
approach saying we're going to wait for
this to play out at the moment. Look at
what the financial markets are telling
you. Financial [music] markets at this
moment are not pricing in a Turkey,
Argentina, central bank of the United
States. They're just not.
>> Not at all. The 10 years are 415. Yields
are down this morning by three basis
points. 30s are at 480. Yields down at
the long end by [music] three basis
points. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Andrew BS of Pimco as big bank
earnings roll in. We'll speak to the
former White House trade official Kate
Kucawit on a potential Supreme Court
tariff opinion and we'll catch up with
David Kelly of JP Morgan Asset
Management as President Trump ramps up
the pressure on the Fed to cut rates. We
begin this hour with stocks holding
steady following an earnings miss from
Wells Fargo and an upside surprise for
Bank of America. Andrew BS of Pimco
expecting economic resilience for the
year ahead writing there are good
reasons to expect some broadening growth
but the trend towards winners and losers
is likely to persist. Andrew joins us
now for more. Andrew, welcome to the
program, sir. Good to talk to you
because I want to talk about one thing,
something really, really boring, which
traditionally is not how we start a
conversation, but that really, really
boring thing is the 10-year Treasury.
And Andrew, I'm looking for an
explanation. Why are things so quiet in
the Treasury market when things are so
noisy everywhere else?
>> Yeah, so we've had a pretty um well
established range for a couple of years
now. And um uh there is an awful lot of
um news, you know, awful lot happening.
We've had a 6 months worth of news it
feels like in the first couple of weeks
of the the year. The market um Treasury
market um um you know pretty calm in the
uh in the face of the latest challenges
to the the Fed um and and all the other
things going on. The the interventions
in the mortgage market is a you know
significant positive um we would think
in terms of the the agency mortgage
market. I think in broad terms you have
um inflation coming down growth um uh
resilient and you know quite quite
possibly broadening uh beyond just the
um the AI the capex the data center part
of the economy particularly with the
fiscal support in the in the first half
of the the year. So, a pretty reasonable
um outlook and um in spite of the the
challenges we've seen um um the economy
doing quite well um in spite of the the
tariff situation, but winners and
losers. Um you see weakness in the in
the labor market, caution uh on the on
the part of hiring decisions um um
across the um economy. So it remains,
you know, a difficult uh outlook to
judge, but o overall pretty resilient in
terms of the US outlook.
>> So Andrew, let's take the headline stuff
and I'll turn back to the bond market a
little bit later in the conversation. So
headline growth great, decent, and it
has been for the last several years. Is
the disparity beneath that's getting the
attention of politicians, Andrew, as
they seek to address that inequality,
will that shape outcomes for topline
growth?
Well, I think you again across sectors
in credit markets, you you need to look
at winners and um losers, we're going to
have it looks like ongoing policy
announcements um uh aimed at
affordability in the US. So, we have to
take these um um to have to take these
um um as they come. I mean when I step
back um the the 10-year Treasury or or
you know broaden that to the the market
in the US um uh the US bond market
aggregate type um funds uh you can get
6% uh plus in terms of the the yield. So
this looks very good we think uh in
terms of the return that investors can
can get in an environment which is you
know is still tricky is still difficult
in terms of the crossurrens the the
winners and losers the the policy
uncertainty and at a time when when
starting valuations for for equities
look you know pretty full um
particularly for the US market. So being
able to get paid six or you know maybe
7% for a highquality bond fund uh looks
um looks very good given the domestic
uncertainties given the international um
uncertainties we're all facing.
>> Well, there's a question mark about
Trump's tariffs for today at 10:00 a.m.
And the tariffs have generated about
$171 billion of revenue for the US
Treasury. If we have a Supreme Court
decision today that rules AIPA illegal,
do you think that could move the bond
market?
I think the expectation is that um
pending the the um the Supreme Court um
decision uh if if this goes against the
administration, there are other ways
that the administration can um uh
reinstate um similar levels of of
tariffs. So so yeah, there'd be
uncertainty. you could have some
reaction. But I think in broad terms um
um the expectation would be that you
recreate um similar tariffs, similar
revenue um raising um just in in a in a
slightly different format.
>> The other drama in Washington DC and
Jonathan started out talking about how
the 10-year Treasury yield has been
quite boring. Why do you think we're not
seeing bonds move on this concern about
Federal Reserve independence?
So I think it's you know the baseline
and the the risk case. So in the
baseline um yes there is noise um around
um the the Federal Reserve you know the
the reappointment sorry the new
appointment of the the Fed chairman this
year is very important. Legal challenges
against the sitting um um uh chair
certainly are not what you'd want to see
from a from a bond market point of view.
But in the baseline, it looks like this
is is probably more noise. And then in
that environment, the Fed is is priced
to get down to about just above 3% um um
this year. No, it all looks pretty
reasonable. 3% for the the terminal
rate, 4% for the uh the 10-year Treasury
looks 415 for the 10-year Treasury looks
um looks very reasonable. And then
you've got the the risk case. Um and
it's you know from my point of view hard
to see um Fed hikes um with the
information we have um this year and
probably risks um towards lower terminal
rates. So you can position um for that
on the on the yield curve. You can be
long the the front end of the curve, the
5-year part of the curve. You can
consider a curve steepener. Um and you
know that's been working um over the
past um few days. although you know the
the level of long-term interest rates is
becoming more attractive. So I think you
can position for this uh markets have
given um a lot of um credibility or or
or ascribed a lot of credibility to the
Fed um in terms of the strength of the
institution. I think that's that's right
in the baseline. Um uh even with the
change in the Fed chair, it's just one
among the group that make the decisions.
But the risk case um I think is towards
lower uh interest rates and we can
position for that and we you know PIMCO
we are positioning for that across our
portfolios.
>> Andrew are you positioning for higher
rates elsewhere in places like Japan?
>> Well I think it's really interesting
because after you know we had this
period since um 2008 where you had um um
you know very high levels of correlation
um central banks um stuck at the the
lower band or the QE etc. And now it's
much more interesting I think in terms
of global macro. Uh you have countries
where there may be tightening this year.
Japan is priced to to tighten. Uh
Australia priced to to tighten. Europe,
you know, Canada kind of in the middle
uh probably done close to neutral. The
Fed, the UK um priced um to ease,
emerging markets um priced to to ease.
So you have um a you know really good
environment I think for crossmarket
positioning uh global diversification
given all the uncertainties the
challenges we've we've talked about
global uh diversification makes um even
more sense than um normal in this um
environment and at the front end of the
curve um different um curve uh
steepening trades um across country
there's lots of um opportunities
politics driving markets in Japan. Uh
again at the start of the year, the um
the clear indication of a snap election
to come. Uh the the um the um the prime
minister hoping to get a a mandate for
more active fiscal policy, differential
fiscal policy uh across countries, you
know, um uh fiscal loosening uh Japan,
US, Canada, Germany. Uh they're trying
to tighten in the in the UK and France
uh tends to be tighter on the emerging
market sides. those active managers, you
know, lots of opportunity here uh for
the cross-country um uh relative value
trading.
>> Andrew, just a final note on Japan, if I
may. For much of our careers, the
Japanese government bond market has been
an anchor to global bond yields and it
feels like it's anchors away,
particularly over the last few weeks
given developments in Japan, as you
indicate the prospect of snap elections
and maybe more fiscal stimulus. Andrew,
how insulated is somewhere like the
Treasury market to the forces building
in a place like the Japanese government
bond market?
>> Well, I think that's that's interesting.
That's actually a pretty good way to
start a fight at our um investment
committee because we have different
views. But you you do you certainly see
spillover from um Japan to the um the
rest of the world uh driven by the long
end of the curve also also um
potentially the the front end of the
curve. Um I think that you know the
steepness of the the curve in Japan is
very interesting. Uh you see this you
know leading um uh in terms of the
global uh curve shape. Other countries
um have been moving in in that direction
as well. I think I think there's some
spillover when you when you quantify it.
It's not it's not huge. But um uh the
potential volatility from Japan this
year is just uh you know another uh
cause you know uh for for interesting uh
markets and probably good opportunities.
>> Andrew I'm loving our fighter you know
that. Who wants to fight at Newport
Beach [laughter] California? I mean like
no one wants to fight over there do
they?
>> No absolutely not.
>> It's a beautiful place.
>> That's a great gig.
>> Andrew thank you sir. Andrew BS
[laughter] of PIMCO the latest on the
bond market. Here's the latest from
Apollo to Slo just published in moments
ago. Give me some time just to work
through this note. In 25 we worried that
the trade war and immigration
restrictions would lead to stagflation.
With those headwinds fading, the list of
tailwinds keeps growing and we're
starting to worry about overheating in
2026. Torston goes on to say the bottom
line is that there are significant
upside catalyst to growth and inflation
over the coming quarters. And he offers
a list of 10. So I'll share a few of
them. So the trade war uncertainties
fading, strong AI and data center
spending, high AI stock prices boosting
wealth effects for consumers, dollar
depreciation, falling oil prices, throws
in the World Cup, and then points to the
one big beautiful bill.
>> He didn't say it, but he's basically
saying the subtext of all of these is
it's an election year. It is a midterm
election year, and this White House is
throwing everything at the wall to try
to get cost down because affordability
continues to be number one when it comes
to polling. Also interesting, this comes
from Torston Sllock, who I think is the
White House's favorite economist because
remember he said Trump fooled us all
when it comes to the trade tariff
negotiations because when it comes to
inflation, it has only been a one-time
price shock. That's it.
>> That's the latest from our friend to
Slug over at Apollo. If you're just
joining us, futures negative down by
about 0.4% on the S&P. With an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief [music] is Vonyie Quinn. Hey
Vonyie.
>> Hey John, thank you. Bank of America
rising in the pre-market after its
fourth quarter results beat Wall Street
estimates. The bank topping analyst
expectations on net interest income and
investment banking revenue. Bank of
America CEO Brian Moyahan saying he's
quote bullish on the US economy in 2026.
The Supreme Court expected to release
opinions at 10:00 a.m. Eastern this
morning and we are waiting for the court
to rule on the legality of President
Trump's so-called Liberation Day
tariffs.
>> [music]
>> Justices will decide if the White House
bypassed Congress to unconstitutionally
tax trade.
President Trump continuing to push for
US ownership of Greenland. The president
posting on Truth Social this morning,
NATO should be leading the way for us to
get Greenland. Trump's statement comes
ahead of a meeting between top diplomats
from Greenland and Denmark and Secretary
of State Marco Rubio and JD Vance, the
vice president in Washington this
afternoon. [music] And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonnie
in about 30 minutes. Up next on the
program, bracing for a tariff decision.
>> You have the Supreme Court now going to
rule on whether or not we can use
tariffs. Can you believe this? Brought a
case brought about by people that are
Chinaentric,
foreign. We'll figure something out if
we don't win. But we should win.
>> That conversation up next with the
former White House trade official Kate
Kucawitz from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Stocks are a little bit softer for a
second day. We're down by 0.4% on the
S&P on the NASDAQ 100 down by 0.6. And
the surveillance this morning bracing
for a tariff decision.
You have the Supreme Court now going to
rule on whether or not we can use
tariffs. Can you believe this?
brought a case brought about by people
that are China ccentric, foreign
centric, but China centric. I wouldn't
want it if I was China either. You know,
[music]
China's our one of our biggest taxpayers
right now. We'll figure something out if
we don't win, but we should win. I mean,
we should win.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Supreme Court's ruling on President
Trump's Liberation Day tariffs could
come as early as today. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us from Washington.
Tyler, is today the day?
>> Well, John, it might be. And some are
pointing to the fact that the Supreme
Court has already acted in an expedited
manner. That today could be the day we
get the decision. Plus, the White House
has asked the justices to prioritize
this, arguing that the current situation
is jeopardizing foreign policy and
ongoing trade negotiations, not to
mention the billions of dollars tied up
in them. The Supreme Court here is
deciding on the legality of President
Trump's tariffs imposed under AIPA, the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act. And they really have two questions
in front of them. One, does the
president have the authority to invoke
AEIPA to impose tariffs? Has never been
done before. It's typically used for
sanctions. And two, if he does, did he
invoke it correctly? Were the national
emergencies that he declared reaching
that legal standard of an unusual and
extraordinary threat in the case of the
so-called reciprocal tariffs? He cited
persistent trade imbalances. This is
also setting the stage for a potentially
very complicated tariff refund fight. As
of last month, the administration
recorded $133 billion tied to IEPA
tariffs alone. Our analysts at Bloomberg
Intelligence say that if tariff refunds
are issued, it will likely
disproportionately impact apparel and
toy companies. But John, one thing is
for clear, no matter how the Supreme
Court rules, officials say that tariffs
are here to stay. They could invoke more
section 232 tariffs over national
security concerns or section 301 tariffs
over unfair trade practices. It's just
that officials like to say that IPA
gives them the most flexibility.
>> Tyler down in Washington in the nation's
capital. Tyler Kendall, thank you. The
former White House trade official
Kukawitz with this to say in a loss
scenario, President Trump's focus will
likely shift to generating wins in
existing agreements through stakeholder
engagement and sector specific
investigations. Kate joins us now for
more. Kate, welcome. this line from the
president. We'll figure something out if
we don't win. If they don't win, what
does figuring something out look like?
>> Well, I think what's exceedingly clear,
including in the clip you just played,
is that President Trump is not going to
let these tariffs go if the Supreme
Court rules against him and his usage of
AIPA, he has a number of other tariff
authorities that that were just
mentioned that he can use to impose the
tariffs back up to the same levels. And
and certainly he signaled his intention
to do that almost immediately.
Do you think we can have a split ruling?
How is the fentinel crisis not a
national security concern or or a
national crisis?
>> Yes, that's a really important point and
and I think we may well see a split
decision if in fact the Supreme Court
issues its ruling today. Uh you'll
recall that the president has imposed
tariffs for a number of reasons. He
likes to use them for lots of reasons
including uh issues like the fentinel
crisis, the border crisis. Those of
course were the first AIPA tariffs that
he imposed after he started his second
term. I suspect those may be a bit more
safe frankly in a Supreme Court ruling
because of course the Supreme Court has
ruled in his favor in the past that the
border did constitute a national
security crisis. So we may end up with a
decision today that rules against
certain tariffs, those imposed for trade
deficits and retains other tariffs. So,
it will be really important, I think, to
take some time uh to analyze whatever
the Supreme Court puts out before before
companies make decisions about what to
do next.
>> So, let's let's look at the ones that
potentially could be struck down today,
the reciprocal tariffs. Does the
president go back to the negotiating
table with different countries or does
he just try to look at things that have
withheld going after sectors like he has
with autos?
>> I think it could be a mixture of both.
And the sector tariffs like the auto
tariffs that you mentioned and and other
sector tariffs on things like steel and
aluminum have provided durable leverage
for the president to negotiate on
tariffs. So those tariffs are not under
discussion and they are not under
threat. So they remain really important
pieces of leverage for the president to
go to trading partners and say let's
make a deal. uh in fact the agreements
that he struck with the European Union,
Japan and Korea and others have focused
really more on the 232 tariffs than on
the IEP but tariffs. Those economies of
course agreed to higher tariff rates
overall on their goods to the United
States, but I don't think the Supreme
Court is going to impact that particular
situation at all.
>> Kate, there's another section 338. Has
it ever been used? And isn't it just as
blunt as AIPA? Could that also then have
legal issues down the road?
>> It could. Uh, you know, we do have other
authorities. 338 is one. There's another
one called 122. These are authorities
that the president's team has spent a
lot of time contemplating. Uh, I think
they are absolutely on the table for
this plan B scenario that the
administration has described. You know,
both don't have perhaps the the
flexibility that AIPA has, which is why
the president really prefers AIPA. Um
but but they're absolutely tools that
they could be used. 338 is tied directly
to to you know trade disturbances that
happen in other economies. You'd have to
go ahead and make cases. Um but I but I
do think the president is is willing to
use these authorities that are untested
and and as you point out I suspect folks
are thinking about how to challenge them
if he does in fact use them.
>> Okay. We've been offered lots of
justifications for these tariffs to
raise money. We've certainly seen the
government raise a lot of money through
them. The other issue to bring
manufacturing back home well justified
along certain sectors. I think we
understand that issue now and the
president's done a lot to really
highlight those problems. Kate, the
bigger issue though, I think for the
global economy was getting China to
change its economic model. This record
trade surplus we've just seen through
2025, even with a massive drop off in
exports to the United States. Kate, why
is it proving so difficult to get China
to change?
Well, I think that's because lots of
economies like cheap goods. You know, I
think the president has said repeatedly
and I think is right that if we are
going to confront Chinese policies, it
has to be done as a group of like-minded
countries. Uh this is why you see the
president and and the trade team
articulating an initiative in these
trade agreements on something they call
economic security, which is usually
policies geared toward China. The United
States, I think, understands that it can
only do so much to impact China. We have
cut our trade goods deficit with China
through these actions. But, as you point
out, China has found other markets to
send its goods to unless and until other
economies join the United States in
imposing policies directed at China, I
think China will continue to find
markets.
>> Kate, appreciate it. Thank you, Kate.
Kucawitz, a strong take at the end
there. And Hollow, the manufacturing
base of Europe, might be where this
continues. But she's right. China will
continue to dump wherever they can.
They're going to find those markets.
Even though, to your point, there's been
a massive drop off [music] on exports
into the United States.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Steven Kim of Evercore as the
housing market weighs the impact of
government [music]
intervention.
[music]
facing down the prospect of back-to-back
losses on the S&P for the first time in
the new year. Equity futures on the S&P
500, negative through much of this
morning so far. We're down by a third of
1% on the S&P. We're down by 0.5 on the
NASDAQ. Lots of newsy headlines in the
last 24 hours. Plenty of noise. And yet
this in the Treasury market, which is
just unreal. The 10-year bond yield
going absolutely nowhere. Just
rangebound over the last several months.
a five, six, seven basis point trading
range on a closing basis for the year so
far. 4:15 on 10. We're down by three
basis points. 30 is down by two. More
data in 60 minutes. We'll get PPI
[music] and retail sales. Where you're
seeing plenty of noise. Guy Johnson in
London earlier on this morning saying,
"How to price the crazy, you do it in
metals. Gold up by 1%, silver up by
five. Record highs across the board."
And what's so interesting about this is
the [music] records we saw last year set
for gold and silver. Gold up 65%, silver
up more than 100% last year, the best
year since 1979.
This is part of potentially the
debasement. You're concerned about
deficits. On [music] top of that, you
see factory orders in China. On top of
that, you see the AI built AI buildout
in the United States [music] coming from
a push from this administration as well
as the tech companies. And you think
this is a place to hide out as well as
potentially used in the physical [music]
market. So why not you just pile in
>> more records so far this morning as we
count you down to the opening bell.
Let's get you some single names as well
with your morning movers. Here's
Yahihara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. As you said plenty to get
through and including bank earnings. We
start [music] on a positive note with
Bank of America. Shares are up 8/10en of
1% after it blew past estimates for net
[music] interest income. Trading revenue
also coming in strong. and CEO Brian
Moahan saying that he is bullish [music]
on the US economy, which of course is a
meaningful signal from a bank so closely
tied to everyday [music]
borrowers. Meanwhile, it's a different
story for Wells Fargo. Shares are down
1.8% after it missed on net interest
income. That and higher severance
[music] cost weighed on the quarter
leading to a profit miss. And this this
of course is a bank that is under
transition after [music] the Fed of
course lifted its asset cap last year.
So, it's been slashing headcount to
refocus to focus on areas like
investment [music] banking. So, that is
leading to some near-term pressures. And
we end on Netflix with the media saga
not over just yet. Uh Netflix shares are
up 1.6% on our reporting that it is
weighing making an allcash offer for
Warner [music] Brothers Discovery as it
aims to speed up a sale as this saga has
grown increasingly contentious. Just
this week, you had Paramount Sky Dance
saying it was suing and that it was
planning to nominate uh directors
[music] to the board. So, Netflix trying
to end this drama. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Yara
noting some decent numbers out of Bank
of America a little bit earlier this
morning. The media calls underway and as
everyone anticipated, these questions
were going to come up about credit cards
and interest rates. Danny joins us now
for more. Danny, Bank of America seems
to be handling this a little bit
differently to what we heard from JP
Morgan yesterday. Yeah, the the polar
opposite in that they don't clearly want
to comment on it. The CFO speaking just
moments ago on the media call that I was
listening to, Alistister Borthwick is,
as you would assume, it was the very
first question. How do you feel about
this proposed or attempted enforcement
of a 10% credit card cap for interest
rates? Uh CFO Borthwick goes on to say,
"We're supportive of what the
administration is doing around
affordability." He goes through the Bank
of America history saying that we do
things like trying to limit overdraft
fees. We have various product suites to
help Americans exactly with this with
affordability and we are standing by the
administration to help them. But on this
specific issue of credit card caps on
interest rates, they say it is firmly in
the public debate arena and that the
issues are well understood and nothing
more to add. So clearly stepping away. I
should say the second question they got
was one on politics too saying are are
you ready to support clients in
Venezuela for various oil projects there
the CFO also decides not to engage
saying yes of course we are willing to
do whatever it takes to help our clients
around the world but it's too early to
say anything on this I should note that
they got an additional question from our
very own Paul Davies around just the
health of the consumer and the CFO very
bullish on this too saying that all
metrics tell us that the consumer is
resilient remains in great shape. No
sense that they're borrowing more.
Savings are normalizing. In fact,
checking accounts are growing over the
course of the year. They're spending
really well. So, bullish on the
consumer, uh bullish on consumer
affordability, let's say, but uh
declining to engage in the politics of
the moment. John,
>> obviously, we'd prefer the alternative,
but that's a communications clinic and
how not to make headlines. Danny, thank
you. Danny Burgerer there with the
latest on Bank for America. on a radar
this morning. President Donald Trump
dismissing criticism from the JP Morgan
CEO Jamie Diamond about the DOJ's probe
into the Federal Reserve.
>> I think it's fine what I'm doing and we
have a bad Fed person. He was extended
by Biden and yeah, I think he's wrong. I
think it's wrong. He's uh he's done a
bad job. We should have lower rates.
Jamie Diamond probably wants higher
rates. Maybe he makes more money that
way. The president facing bipartisan
backlash over the investigation that
could complicate the process of
replacing Fetch Hal later this year.
Elsewhere, Amazon looking to reduce what
it pays suppliers ahead of a potential
Supreme Court tariff decision. The
Financial Times reporting the tech giant
is moving to reverse some of the
measures used to ease the impact of
President Trump's levies. And finally,
the vice president JD Vance and
Secretary of State Marco Rubio meeting
with diplomats from Denmark and
Greenland at the White House today to
discuss US demands for the territory.
President Trump posting on True Social
this morning, "America needs Greenland
for national security."
>> And he's making the case in this post
that NATO becomes more formidable and
and effective if Greenland is in the
hands of the United States. Now, the
Danes are going to show up and they're
going to say, "Sir, there's a treaty
dating back to the 1950s that basically
we give you the right to come in and
have a defense posture on Greenland."
So, this all feels worthless. But
obviously, they need an off-ramp to keep
the president at bay. And the president
has made this point in his first term.
So, I imagine they would have been
expecting this to come. One, they can
say there's US military presence there.
Add on, bring more troops. We are happy
for you to make this a fortress. Second,
they could do something that Ukraine
did, which is offer a minerals deal. The
president is keenly focused on minerals
and rare earths, especially as you see
China pulling back those exports into
the United States.
>> That's the focus on the international
stage. Here's the focus on the domestic
stage, affordability. President Trump
ramping up his big push.
>> In the coming weeks, I will be laying
out even more plans to help bring back
affordability. As part of those efforts
at Davos next week, I'm going to provide
much more detail about our housing
policies so that every American who
wants to own a home will be able to
afford one. This will include a ban on
large institutional investors buying up
single family homes all over the country
and making it impossible for people to
buy a home. Steven Kim of Avacore ISI
writing this. A potential worry is that
government intervention will bring
renewed pressure on the large public
builders to increase production more
than they otherwise would to the
detriment of their margins. Steven joins
us now for more. Stephen, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Thanks for dropping by. It's a very
important story for Americans, housing
affordability, and the president's
trying to address the issue. Can we talk
about the issue? Where do you think the
problem is on the demand side, access to
credit, on the supply side, building
enough homes? Where do you think there
is an issue right now?
>> Sure. Well, I think that there's some
obvious things which is that home prices
rallied very dramatically post the
pandemic and wages haven't risen that
much and you also had mortgage rates
which also more than doubled, you know,
after the pandemic as well. You put the
two things together and you have things
that are much less affordable than they
were within recent memory. Obviously, I
think everybody understands that there's
not a lot they can do about home prices.
They actually don't really want home
prices to start going down in a
measurable way, right? But they can do
some things on mortgage rates and they
have been doing some things on mortgage
rates. Um we'll I'm sure we'll touch on
that. The other thing to your question
is to remember that home buying is not
just math, it's mental. If you're
worried about your job, the last thing
you're going to do is go out and buy a
house. And in fact, if you look at the
surveys at the number of people who
actually are worried about their job
losing their job in the next year, it's
actually at very high levels. And so
that's another impediment to
affordability. And I think it's been a
lot of the instability uh that that
people have been feeling that is also
causing them not to buy. That's not so
easy for the government to fix either.
>> When it comes to the large institutional
investors, they're about 2% less than 2%
of the housing market. The president has
also directed the FHFA to buy mortgage
back securities. Is that helping?
>> So, one of them is not helping, the
other one is helping. Um so, the the
institutional investor angle is
something that I think is more of a
fiction than it is a reality. So, um I
would sort of say that that's not
something that you should think too much
about. Um although
>> psychologically it sounds good to the
everyday American.
>> It sounds wonderful. Uh yeah, not
necessarily going to make a big impact,
but it will actually have a slight
detrimental impact to the builders, the
large public builders who maybe we
estimate maybe sell about 5% of their
stuff to investors. So that's that's
actually probably not a good thing for
the builders and it's kind of a nothing
burger for the market as a whole. The
mortgage rates, however, is a big thing
for everybody. And so we've seen the
mortgage back security purchases uh push
down immediately. It pushed down the
mortgage back uh security spreads over
treasuries by 20 basis points. A really
big move and it brought mortgage rates
down slightly below 6% briefly. The
problem is and we wrote about this is we
uh our contact suggested that that was
probably too big a move. Other people
were saying ah it's not big enough. It
could actually be 50 basis points. You
could see that having the effect but
we're not so sure. The key issue is that
200 billion sounds like a lot, but if
that's all you get and there's nothing
after that, then it's not going to have
that big of an impact.
>> They've already been buying last year's
about north of 230 billion. And then
Bill Py was on and when I asked him
about the cap, he said everything's on
the table. Maybe they would lift the
cap. So what if they go above that cap?
>> So that is exactly what prompted people
to say, "Oh, this could be a big thing
because 200 billion is just a starting
thing, right? And then you can lift the
cap and do more." Here's the thing. They
have 200 billion in cash. That's where
the cash is coming from to buy it. What
about the next whatever? Let's say they
do another 200 billion. They raise the
cap. Where's that money coming from? You
got to borrow. You got to pay interest
and you got to hedge that interest rate
risk. Guess what? That's expensive. In
addition to that, you got the Fed, you
got I'm sorry, you got the GSC's coming
in. They're a big voracious buyer, but
they're existing MBS buyers out there,
right? You might you're going to see
probably the MBS buyers step back. So,
you could have more displacement
than you actually have net addition. And
that's another reason why you might not
see the spreads come down as much as
some people hope.
>> So you're sympathetic, I'm sure, to the
problem for investors right now. This
sector's got a target on it. Yes.
>> How investable is it when you get
whipsawed from headline to headline
every day for the year so far?
>> Well, I think another critical thing to
keep in mind is what uh the Bill Py
spoke about last night uh which is that
he believes that the builders should
refrain from doing share repurchases
much like what they did about the
defense stocks. And when I saw the
defense stocks, uh, you know, the the
the the thing from, uh, Trump about, you
know, directed towards the defense
names, I was like, "Wow, you could just
ex just take that exact document and
just put home builders in there, and
that's basically what I think you're
going to get." And by the way, the
builders bought back 10% of their shares
almost last year. They're big
repurchasers. It's a big part of the
home builder story. So, it's a really
noxious thing for them to wake up and
read about. kind of awkward that this
address might happen in Davos because
you're gonna he's going to be addressing
people that pay some of them a million
dollars to join this World Economic
Forum which the president I know thinks
is some elitist globalist cabal. What do
you think he's going to say?
>> So in in Davos he's he's sort of teased
um that that he's going to announce some
of the biggest you know housing reform
things in history. Um but they've
already I think you know they were kind
of I think they couldn't quite contain
their their enthusiasm and so they they
put out a couple of big things already
and as I said the MBS thing is actually
a pretty big thing. Uh in addition what
they could potentially do is they could
announce that they're going to lower G
fees which is the fees that Fanny and
Freddy charge for their services. Um G
fees are about 40 basis points higher
than they used to be but don't think
that you're going to get 40 basis
points. I think if they tried to do that
that would get a tremendous amount of
push back. I'm guessing maybe you get 10
basis points out of the G fees. There's
some other things they could do like
open federal lands. I don't know, maybe
Greenland might be on the map here for
that. That I don't know how helpful that
would be, but we'll see. Um they could
open federal lands for home building.
>> Cold.
>> A little cold. Yeah. Um there's some tax
credits he could announce. I think that
would get the biggest, you know,
excitement, but the thing is that
requires Congress to say yes.
>> Stephen, it's good to see you. Plenty of
issues to start the year. Steven Kim
there of Ever on the housing market.
Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vonnie Quinn for more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John, thank you. [music] The
majority of Venezuelans want Maria
Karina Matado to run the country. A
survey from Atlas Intel finding that
more than 51% say Matado should take
over. The findings are contradicting
President Trump's claim that the
opposition leader does not have the
country's support. Matado is set to
visit the White House tomorrow.
Elon Musk's Starlink satellite service
is offering free internet access in
Iran. The move comes amid the country's
deadly crackdown on protests and days
long internal blackout imposed by the
regime. [music]
While Starlink receivers are prohibited
in the country, many have been smuggled
across the nation's borders.
Sachs filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection, giving the retailer the
chance to reorganize its business, clear
debts, and potentially find a buyer. The
company announcing that Jeffrey Ran
Rimdon is replacing CEO Richard Baker
who had been in the job for just two
weeks. And that is your Bloomberg brief.
John [music]
>> and Vonyie. Thank you. More from Vonyie
next hour. Up next on the program, the
case for lowering interest rates.
>> In the old days, when you had good
numbers, interest rates would go down.
When you had good numbers, the market
would go through the roof. That's the
way we're going to make it again. Our
growth potential is unlimited and it
could be much higher. We'll talk to
David Kelly of JP Morgan about the
difference between corporate credit and
sovereign debt in just a moment. From
New York City, good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> numbers from Croup in just a moment.
We'll hear from them in 13 minutes time.
30 minutes after that, we'll get some
data. We'll get PPI [music] and US
retail sales into it. The scores shaping
up as follows. Equities a bit softer,
down by a third of 1%. [music] If you're
just waking up this morning, we're down
by 0.5 on the NASDAQ. Under surveillance
this morning, the case for lowering
interest rates. In the old days, when
you had good numbers, interest rates
would go down. when you had good
numbers, the market would go through the
roof. That's the way we're going to make
it again. Our growth potential is
unlimited and could be much higher if we
went back to sanity. We're talking about
the head of a Fed of the Fed and I want
somebody that when the market is doing
great, interest rates can go down
because our country becomes stronger.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president touting his economic
accomplishments while continuing to make
the case for lower interest rates. Start
Kelly of JP Morgan Asset Management
writing, "We expect the Federal Reserve
to take its time in implementing further
rate cuts with two in total for 26 and a
further cut in 27. We believe this will
be the case even with new Fed
leadership." David joins us now for
more. David, welcome. We can talk about
the rate cuts. Let's start with the
economy. What's the outlook for 26 for
you and the team?
>> Uh, it's pretty solid. Uh, I think that
we're going to have income tax refunds
flooding in uh over the first half of
this year. I think we quite possibly
will get a tariff rebate check to sort
of keep the economy stoked in the third
quarter. So, we're looking for the first
three quarters of the year to be close
to 3% growth. And then by the fourth
quarter, I think things fade and if if
Democrats take over the House and you
got divided government in 2027, I think
you have slower growth. I'm looking for
about 2% growth, maybe more than that.
Maybe 2 and a half% growth for uh 2026
and then slipping down to about 1.5%
growth for 2027.
>> Well, let's round it up to three for 26.
Let's work with some strong numbers,
David. Let's say things are going to be
great, solid economic growth. Typically,
that's not a backdrop where the Federal
Reserve is cutting interest rates. What
do you make of these comments from the
president where he says in the old days
when the numbers were good, interest
rates were lower. What's he getting at?
Well, of course, you've got good numbers
in inflation, good numbers in growth,
and those two things have opposite
effects in interest rates. But, you
know, getting back to your previous
discussion, you know, with your guest on
affordability.
Why do we have an affordability problem?
It is not because mortgage rates are too
high today. It's because mortgage rates
were way too low for the in the decade
after the great financial crisis. You
know, if you look at the the the last
few years of uh of the 201s, we had
these super low mortgage rates. You get
a mortgage at 3%. What did that do? It
caused home prices to skyrocket and
that's the problem. And then when you
get back to normal mortgage rates and
these are just normal mortgage rates
that we have today. There's nothing
unusual or inappropriate about them. The
problem is the average person cannot
afford to buy these really expensive
homes even with average mortgage rates.
So the problem isn't the mortgage rates
today. It is where the mortgage rates
were before and what that did to home
prices.
>> David, following on Jonathan's point,
the president talking about the old
days. Are you saying basically what he's
talking about is pre the great financial
crisis?
>> I'm, you know, I'm gonna dodge what he
means by good numbers because it's, you
know, I'm not going to try to be to
parse that too much. What we know is
there there's what we know is that
interest rates today are not
particularly high. Um, if you get super
low inflation and particular if you get
super low inflation, the economy goes
into recession, then interest rates
might come down a bit. But I think we're
sort of obsessed with getting rates down
to inappropriately low levels. I think
that causes asset bubbles. And if you
think about what's really cursed the
economy over the 21st century, it's been
asset bubbles. So, let's try and avoid
that.
>> But you do think we're going to have two
cuts this year.
>> Yes, just about. It's a close call. I I
think that uh we the Fed could give us
one cut in the first half of the year.
We'll have to see how that that plays
out. I think the the decision by the
Supreme Court on tariffs would be quite
important in that. If the overall level
of tariffs comes down, that should take
some pressure off inflation and that
might allow the Fed to cut rates once in
the first half of this year and then
right at the end of the year, I think
you could get another cut in December if
inflation comes back down to 2%, which
we think it could uh by the end of this
year. So, if that if that all plays out,
you might get two rate cuts this year,
but the Fed's in no hurry to cut rates.
And whatever the the president does in
terms of appointing a new Fed chair, um
the Fed won't be in a hurry to cut
rates. So David, the growth profile that
you've described is decent growth for
this year and a slowdown into 27. Now
the market arguably equities have been
priced for that better growth profile
for this year. In fact, the market's
been focused on 2026 and better growth
for quite a while. When does it start to
pick up on your story, the next leg of
things, which is the deceleration into
27.
>> Well, I think I think this is a market
that's very hard to depress. Uh I think
you know over the years because of
embedded capital gains, because of money
pouring in from 401ks, because of money
pouring in from stock buybacks, you've
just got a huge surge in demand for
equities a not a lot of money coming out
of the market. So you know, I think the
market's pricing in a lot of good things
here, but I don't really think it's a
macro outlook that that is is the
greatest risk to the market. I think
that the greatest sort of economic and
financial risk to the market is that
something goes wrong with the AI
hyperscaler story. uh because I think a
lot of market enthusiasm is centered
around that. Uh but for the moment I
don't think the macro numbers are going
to shake this equity market.
>> Something did change with the market
reaction function with regards to the AI
tech story David when we started to get
capex numbers and increased spending and
the stock market started to push back.
How do you think the market's going to
approach investors will approach earning
season from the major tech players and
those with exposure to this theme?
Well, I think I think they want they'll
want to make sure that, you know, can
companies actually afford to do this?
Because there are questions about, you
know, if you go a few years down the
road, are all of these companies uh and
I'm not going to mention individual
names, but are they all going to be
solvent? Because there can't be that
many winners in the AI story. you you've
got all you've got like five or or even
domestically, you know, five big
companies trying to chase after
generative AI and um they can't all they
can't all win and there is a question at
some stage about does do some of them
get into too much debt. So I think the
market's going to be very focused on
that story and also sort of the
circularity in terms of you know
everybody's capital everybody's capital
spending in the tech sector is somebody
else's revenue so that that you know you
can depreciate the capital spending the
revenues all go straight to the bottom
line and so it is this huge flurry of
capital spending is actually inflating
profits in the tech sector. I think
people are aware of that.
>> David is that an issue for 26 or an
issue further out? I think it's I think
it's probably more of an issue further
out. The the difference I think that one
of the biggest differences between now
and the the.com bubble is you do have
massive cash flow from these
hyperscalers which can keep the party
going uh even if people have some doubts
about the long-term viability of the
party but there's enough cash to keep it
going which wasn't the case back in the
com bubble.
>> David appreciate your time as always.
Thank you sir. David Kelly there of JP
Morgan asset management on the interest
rate backdrop the future of the economy
and what's going to happen with AI. Now
he wouldn't name any companies but I
think for a lot of people coming into
the new year focused on the funding
needs of one company open AI and whether
we get some push back for the year
ahead.
>> Gil Lauria basically is talking about
how that's the litmus test for this
entire trade of this entire market open
AI how well will that IPO be received?
You also have to think they have a lot
of cash flow, but the president's
basically saying that these companies
might have to subsidize American
consumers electricity bills. Now, a lot
of this is populist ideas going out to
the midterm election, but if you're a
tech company, you got to start thinking
about that.
>> Look, the president's got a curious take
on interest rates. He seemed to believe
based on those comments that if the
economy is doing better, we should be
borrowing at lower interest rates. And
of course, for a lot of people that
follow developed markets, sovereign debt
markets, that's not how things work.
That's how say a corporate debt security
would work. That if the profits are
good, the numbers are good, your
borrowing costs will be lower. Of
course, the Treasury market doesn't work
like that. And the Federal Reserve
certainly doesn't work like that either.
So, this just sets you up for more
tension further down the road. And for
an individual that's hosting interviews,
holding interviews at least over the
last month, I just wonder, I'd love some
insight into the kind of questions that
were asked these potential Fed
candidates as those interviews continue.
Well, maybe we can get some insight
because Rick Reer, who is a frequent
guest of Bloomberg, is having his
interview supposedly tomorrow with the
president and he's the last one to have
this interview. Maybe he can share some
insight on the questions that are being
asked. I know the number one is, will
you cut into?
>> I imagine he's not going to tell us
anything. Rick's a [music] good guy.
Best of luck to him for the next 24
hours. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Alexman of Barclays, the
Dout CEO, Ed Bastion, sitting down with
Lisa. Look out for that in about 20
minutes time. We speak to Sarah House of
Wells Fargo and David Rubenstein of
Carl.
[music]
>> The next bullish catalyst, the earning
season,
>> earnings expectations for Q4, the bar is
actually pretty low.
>> The fundamental issue is really about
earnings. realization.
>> This is a moment of pause that maybe
2026 is not going to be as smooth as a
lot of people are anticipating.
>> There is still room to run here.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance [music]
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
[music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures [music] pulling back by 0.4% on
the S&P 500. We're down by 0.5 on the
NASDAQ 100. For the next hour or so,
earnings from [music] City any moment
now. 30 minutes after that, we'll get
data, PPI, [music] and retail sales.
Leisa sitting down with Ed Bassian, the
DA CEO. Look out for that in about 15
minutes time. And Amarie [music] later
telling him Easter might get a ruling on
those liberation day tariffs.
>> We might get a ruling on those tariffs.
And that's going to be huge for this
administration because they [music]
basically need to work about 75% of some
of the tariff deals they've cut with
this administration or potentially the
fentinel tariffs they've put on some
other countries. Um that's going to be
interesting also the timing of this
because the president is going to
[music] Davos next week where he's going
to be seeing a lot of these countries if
he's reworking this that is going to be
incredibly challenging and take up a lot
of time and space [music] for the rest
of his cabinet. and he said yesterday we
have other ways and tariffs is his
favorite word so it's here [music] to
stay.
>> We have got a lot to get through this
hour including those numbers from city
just dropping. We'll also catch up with
Alexman of Barclays with stocks falling
[music] as treaders weigh the latest
bank earnings. The Delta Airlines CEO
catching up with Lisa following that
underwhelming outlook delivered
yesterday [music] and Sarah House of Ws
Fargo breaking down the latest data. We
begin though with those city earnings
just crossed moments ago. Danny has the
headlines. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. As of now it is looking
somewhat missed. Let's start with the
highlights. The fourth quarter fixed
sales and trading revenue is a beat.
That comes in at $3.46 billion. The
estimate was for $3.29
billion, too. The equity sales and
trading that does come in light. Equity
sales and trading revenue at just over
$1 billion. The estimate was for $1.1
billion. Uh we did have a warning from
the C CFO uh only a few months ago that
the market's revenue would be in the low
to mid single digits growth
year-over-year. So maybe not a surprise
that you do have a little bit of
weakness there. Um it does look like the
investment banking that is somewhat
strong $1.27
billion. It is aggressive growth that
city is aiming for the growth in the
fourth quarter looks something like 84%.
Uh for comparison JP Morgans was just up
by 6%. So it's this turnaround perhaps a
suggestion that the hire from JP Morgan
biz raonavin uh in the late summer is
working for city but again some of these
other sort of metrics coming in a little
bit weaker but Jane Frasier saying we
enter 2026 with a visible momentum
across the firm they are committing to a
return on um equity of 10 to 11%. Total
cost of credit is $2.22 billion. So uh
that comes in lighter than the estimate
for $2.5 billion. And let's just add
into this the scoop from Bloomberg of a
let go of about a thousand people this
week. Just to be clear, in order for
city to hit its target, it would need to
let go more folks and uh to get to that
profitability target and to get some of
its headcount uh uh targets. So at the
moment, John, I have to say it is
looking mixed. Maybe that's why we're
seeing the market reaction you can see
at the moment, which is uh unchanged.
But they are seeing a lower level of
severance in 2026. So maybe some of the
employment picture will start to
normalize at least when it comes to the
cost of that.
>> Somewhat similar to what we saw from JP
Morgan yesterday, Danny. Pockets of
weakness, pockets of strength against
the relatively high bar given the rally
we've seen in some of these names over
the last year. Then we get to the call
and Danny, we know how this goes. The
media gets on the call and they skip
past the numbers and they go straight to
the policy and the politics. What are we
hearing elsewhere?
>> Well, well, as we were talking about
before, Bank of America flat out
declined to comment. Wells Fargo, their
CFO, uh, indeed did decide to comment.
John, I was looking at some of the
comments he said. He said that the card
proposal would affect a wide spectrum of
people. It would have a negative impact
from the threat of that. But just to be
clear, as we had with JP Morgan and as
we had with Bank of America, they are at
pains to begin that answer by saying we
support the affordability push that it
is an issue. the CFO saying families
across the country have been having
issues with affordability for some time
and we think about different solutions
to combat the problem. But again, he
goes on to say, as been pointed out, it
would have a significant negative impact
for credit availability for a wide
spectrum of people and a negative impact
on economic growth uh and a negative
impact on the industry, too. So, John,
we do have comments there and as
expected, they're not positive ones.
>> Danny, thank you. More from Danny
throughout this morning. Look out for
Danny alongside Matt Miller in about 55
minutes time. Rule number one of
banking. Never upset the person with
their finger on the regulation.
>> Absolutely. For City, I cannot wait to
hear what they have to say in terms of
the credit cards. Our Bloomberg analysis
that City leads the group of cards
representing 23% of loans. Can they even
make money if the cap is under 10%.
>> City this morning down by about a third
of 1%. Goldman reporting tomorrow
they're down about 4/10en of 1%. We'll
hear from them and Morgan Stanley
tomorrow morning. Look out for that.
Here's a view on Wall Street this
morning. Alex Alman of Barclay's
writing, "For the time being, investors
will have to navigate the noise upcoming
Q4 earnings and try to deploy capital
into themes that should be agnostic to
the whips soaring headlines." Alex, I'm
excited for this. Tell me how to do
that. Good morning.
>> Good morning. [clears throat] So, uh,
keep it really simple, um, as as simple
as possible. Thematically, as far as we
as a team are concerned, there's one
very obvious theme which you can deploy
in a lot of different ways, and that is
the US China decoupling. It's that
simple. And that I think is going to be
running and humming in the background.
And at the center of that for us, of
course, you've got topics like defense.
You've got topics like um uh uh
commodity security um and just like US
hedgemony as well. And so anything
within that we're particularly focused
on the commodity angle. We think this is
like one of the most interesting themes
that that I've personally seen.
>> Let's get into that. We're seeing metals
this morning and it's not just precious
metals, gold, silver, you're seeing it
in copper in tin. Does that speak to the
kind of things you and the team are
thinking about?
>> Very much so. So, look, we've seen a
precious metal rally and that is
obviously to do with debasement and
deolarization all this kind of thing.
Industrial metals is kind of something
which we pivoted to quite hard in the
fourth quarter of last year and the
reason is because of that decoupling and
just to give you the exact summary in
its simplest form, US and China used to
co-depend on one another or still do
codependences.
If we're moving to a world of decoupling
and we're in a sort of a dant right now
up until the Taiwanese elections at the
beginning of 2028, we've effectively got
two years for these countries to secure
as much resource as possible. Not just
physical demand, but also just the line
of sight on future supply. And what's
really important about that is at the
moment the US is relying on over 50%
imports on about 47 critical metals and
resources. It's not just rare earths,
it's everything. copper, lead, lithium,
electrification systems, aluminium,
everything.
>> If that is your base case, then can we
see more noise when it comes to
geopolitics? The president a week ago, a
little more than a week ago, captured
Maduro. He's now talking about
Greenland.
>> And and let's not let's not exclude
Ukraine as well. Uh massive on critical
minerals and resources as well. So yes,
I think a lot of the foreign policy
decisions are being driven by those two
factors, by defense and commodity
security. Is this have to do with the AI
trade and building out data centers or
is this to increase the availability of
these minerals and metals we need for
our military?
>> Well, I think it's both of those. And on
top, if you just want to run an economy,
if you just want to build
infrastructure, if you want to build
roads and bridges and electrification of
grid and modernize your entire economy,
you need access to critical minerals and
metals. And of course, people talk a lot
about the AI narrative when it's an
important incremental demand for copper,
but we're talking about maybe five or 6%
of global demand is coming from AI data
centers. China is accounting for 60% of
global copper demand.
>> Let's finish on the price of the story.
So, some of those metals are already
trading at all-time highs. Gold, silver,
copper. In the bank sector, we've seen
some record highs in that sector as
well, and they've gone into earnings
season following a massive rally, and
we've seen some push back from earning
season. I just wonder if you're taking
any early indicators from the way the
stock has behaved in response to the
earnings we've seen in the last 24 hours
>> specifically on in the financials.
>> The financials. Yeah.
>> I mean, I think you've obviously got
this noise around the credit card data
which which you you guys have already
covered. Um against that, you've also
got to consider there's still a question
mark about what's going to happen within
the ECM world in 2026. There's also
going to be a question around the state
of the consumer in 2026 as well. Most
people are are of the view that it's
going to be a very robust backdrop still
for the consumer. But let's not forget,
we've talked about this a lot in the
past. We're still in a K-shaped
recovery. There's a large number of
consumers that aren't in good shape, and
we have to consider those as well when
talking about consumer finance.
>> In some ways, does it make it easier to
trade small caps, to be invested in
small caps because they're not the
target of some of the headlines to start
the new year.
>> So, as we've been as a team very bullish
on small caps since around about July of
last year, we're beginning just to sort
of temper that enthusiasm just now. And
>> what's changed? Just the rally?
>> Well, the positioning. So positioning
was a big driver of what of of our view
back in the summer when the they
basically had record shorts by hedge
funds and asset manager that's now
completely closed actually has moved
back to a net long. It's not crowded by
any stretch and one of the big
beneficiaries of small caps right now is
a combination of the OBB
and also the fact we have to think about
AI beneficiaries i.e. low margin
companies that actually can start to get
the benefits of AI productivity as well.
So there is still a positive small cap
story, but from the positioning dynamic
perspective, we have to respect the fact
it's changed.
>> Is it fair to say that trade though is
no longer dependent on lower interest
rates? That something did click in in
the last several months that was away
from the Federal Reserve story in
>> in terms of trade,
>> the fact that we had small caps rally as
hard as they did, even though basically
the rate cutting cycle has now stalled.
I
>> I would definitely say there's been a
tariff a tariff temperament dynamic
that's that's been at play in small caps
as well. And of course, we're going to
get the IPO announcement from the
Supreme Court any day now. And I think
that decision will also um plot the path
for small caps in the near term too.
>> Is that a market story? The Supreme
Court decision because Amar's asked this
question continuously and had a lot of
push back. I would say basically goes
something like this. Yeah, me basically
what's going to happen is they'll find
another way and it doesn't really change
anything.
>> So that that's really the question. The
question is not about whether it's a
market dynamic or not. question is does
the president want to you use this AIPA
Scottus ruling as an offramp in a year
where he want really wants to win the
midterms and you can see a lot of the
domestic policy announcements that have
come through from him over the past week
in these frenetic headlines have been
about affordability and helping the
middle class and so would actually a
tariff roll back and we've already seen
some of that right whether it's
furniture and kitchen cabinetry and
stuff that was supposed to kick in and
didn't is this all part of a a let's
call it a one-year hiatus in order to
try and improve the affordable
affordability dynamic of of Americans
and then kick the tariff narrative back
in. That's not my view. Just to be very
clear, I think that the president
>> blame the Supreme Court,
>> right? I think the president likes
tariffs. I think he likes winning. I
think he likes using it as leverage uh
in part of the foreign policy. However,
there is still a narrative out there
that there is an offramp that could
present itself.
>> A lot to think about in the week and
year ahead. Alex, thank you, sir. Good
to see you. Alexman there of Barclays.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Vonnie Quinn. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. City out with its
fourth quarter results, reporting FIC
sales and trading revenue that beat
estimates. CEO Jane Frasier saying the
bank is entering 2026 with visible
momentum across the firm and committing
to a 10 to 11% return on equity.
Robotics startup Skilled AI is being
valued at 14 billion in a new funding
[music] round. The company raising over
a billion dollars from investors
SoftBank, Nvidia, Bezos Expeditions.
Skilled AI's valuation has more than
tripled in the last seven months.
Airbnb is set to launch an AI search
this year as it leans more into AI for
customer recommendations. This coming
after the company hired former Meta head
of Gen AI as its chief technology
officer. CEO Brian Chesy telling
Bloomberg News, "We're going to build
[music] great design sensibility into
the experience of Airbnb." And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next, we'll get you the morning calls
plus Lisa sitting down with the Delta
Airlines CEO Ed Bastian. That
conversation up next.
[music]
This is a market that's very hard
[music] to depress. There's money
pouring in from 401ks. because of money
pouring in from stock buybacks. You've
just got a huge surge in demand for
equities and not a lot of money coming
out of the market. The greatest sort of
economic and financial risk to the
market is that something goes wrong with
the AI hyperscaler story. But for the
moment, [music] I don't think the macro
numbers going to shake this equity
market. That was David Kelly of JP
Morgan. Here's the equity market this
morning. Just slightly softer down by
0.4%.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls. Goldman raising its
price target on Hallebertton
highlighting improving international
confidence and values from Venezuela.
Your second call from City [music]
raising its target on BMY Melon citing a
firm strong outlook. And finally, UBS
downgrading Rivian to sell calling
expectations [music] for its latest
vehicle launch elevated. Looks like a
nice car to be honest with you. Anyway,
more on that later. [music] Another
time, another day, another week.
>> Saw one yesterday.
>> Got stuff to do. No, the new ones are
cool. The new ones are very cool.
>> Yeah, it's almost looks like a Range
Rover of the '90s. [music]
>> It's like a smaller version. Anyway,
Rivian's down by 3%. Let's turn to the
airlines. Delta, the first to report
fourth quarter [music] results. Lisa is
at DA's headquarters in Atlanta and she
joins us now with a special guest. Hey,
Lisa.
Hey, John. Thank you so much. And we do
know your uh your obsession with Rivian
and expect you to be driving one. I am
here in Atlanta, Georgia with the CEO of
Delta, Ed Bastian, here alongside me
after that earnings report yesterday and
that projection of 20% earnings per
share growth in 2026. Now that you've
had a day to digest, have you been
surprised by the market's reaction and
frankly by the lines of inquiry that you
got yesterday?
>> Not really. Uh first of all, thank you
for coming down. It's great to have you
on our campus down here in Atlanta. The
uh there were a lot of expectations. you
know, we have a lot of momentum in our
business and as we're going into the
year, we've seen the first part of the
year, the momentum picked up yet again
in the early early days of January. And
so, as a result of that, I think our our
investor base was curious as to whether
they see that momentum continuing to
build, continue to flatline, to bop
around a little bit. And we just
finished a year where we saw some pretty
significant challenges whether it was
the liberation day impact on consumer
sentiment shutdown of the government and
the airspace in the latter part of the
year. So we wanted to make certain we
had a little bit of wiggle room some
caution as to how we thought about you
know projecting the year out and so I
think there was more inquiries to just
how much caution is there and what could
great look like right and so I think
that's more of what we saw. So, we'll
get into what great could look like. Uh,
let's get into the caution and some of
the things that are less foreseeable,
including a proposed 10% cap on uh,
credit card rates. And it raises this
question about the loyalty program at
Delta, considering the fact that
American Express and the partnership
there contributed something like uh, 14%
according to my calculations of the
revenue growth over the past year. I'm
just wondering how big of a hit is this?
Have you started to map that out at all?
>> I [snorts] think it's early. I think
it's premature. uh listen that's not our
business as the financial services world
and the banking climate I think the
banks that have already come out and
spoken about it are expressing a
tremendous amount of concern so I
understand it would require legislation
is what I'm told and u we know the
challenges of of getting anything
through Congress uh these days I also
think the the knock-on effects are
pretty significant when you think about
you know what what seems to be maybe a
good idea to help the lower income
strata given some income tax or income
tax some some uh interest rate relief.
The reality is it's going to eliminate
their ability for credit and it's going
to freeze up, you know, tremendous
amount of credit lines that the banks
aren't going to be able to afford to
provide. So I, you know, I'm not it's
not my business. Uh, of course, we're
going to work closely with American
Express. The second factor is is that
AMX is a premium card provider. So
that's really not the income level that
we focus on in our business. At the same
time, there is a sense that that's a
growing part of the revenues. We saw an
11% increase in the contribution that
this particular aspect uh made to to
Delta's revenue. So, I just wonder how
much do you expect that to grow? All
things being equal.
>> We're expecting uh high singledigit
growth. You know, in the current year,
we've been seeing double digit growth
for the last several years and it's a
really important part of our business
model. But I don't think it's something
that we we look back and start getting
concerned. I think this this idea has a
lot of roadblocks and and obstacles
ahead of it.
>> One thing that you said in an interview
with the colleague talking about what
could great look like is that
effectively all the growth that you've
seen so far has been from the premium
cabin, not from the main cabin. Why do
you think that is? Is it because of just
incredible strength at the premium end
or is it because of weakness in the main
cabin? I think the main reason is the
demand set for the premium seats and the
premium product that we offer is at a
continues to be at a record high. Uh the
more we look at the health of the
consumer, we talk about the K, we're at
the top end of that K in terms of who
our our consumer is and when you have a
high demand set, that's what drives
pricing strength and that's what drives
the growth that we've seen over the last
several years. That said, on the main
cabinet, it's still a big part of our
business. It's what pays the bills, I'd
like to think of. And as we see some of
the the rationalization that's occurring
because you have a lot of lower-end
airlines with low-end seats, too many
seats chasing still enough consumer
demand. that that space is where a lot
of the rationalization and you see it in
the industry uh currently as that
backdrop continues to get uh into a
healthier environment because all those
airlines have to find a way to earn
their cost of capital. They're not going
to be around. And so as a result of
that, whatever happens there, we will
benefit from that and we'll keep that
premium demand set growing. So, but
we're not growing in that space, but
it'll still be be a good one for us in
terms of improvement. You've talked
about consolidation in the lower end of
the industry and how you expect this to
be a pretty big year of that as people
try to justify their existence and and
and survive. Would you play in that in
any way? Would you make any
acquisitions?
>> We're not going to comment on that
question, but you know, when you look at
who Delta is, you can answer that
question for yourself.
>> Well, I guess that the other question is
how much is the growth going to come
from organic versus inorganic? Is there
sort of a plan especially given how much
you've reduced leverage to really
increase by acquisition some of your
capacity?
>> Well, when we look at that growth for us
international is is a big part of our
our growth strategy. And we announced
yesterday at big new order for the
Boeing Dreamliner. We're very happy
about that, excited about that. People
think about our industry, they come to
me, they say, "Where's the future uh for
travel going to come from? We're 100
years old." It is international. When
you think about only one in five people
in the world have ever stepped foot on
an airplane, that means you have to go
new places. You have to find new
opportunities to grow and expand. And
that's going to be the statement of the
second century of flight. I believe it's
about making the world a much more
connected place than it is today.
>> You know, this comes at a time, the
international travel growth that the
rhetoric between countries has been
incredibly heated and more about putting
up walls. Are you concerned that that
could have consequences and put barriers
when you talk about the international
travel and the growth that you're seeing
in that sector?
>> There have always been walls. There has
always been in politics. There's you
when what we we think look at the world
today, we know the one thing that really
does unite the world is when you can
actually travel and see and experience
and get to know people and you and you
bring the countries physically closer
together. So yes, there's it's it's not
going to be a straight line up. You know
when in in this business we know there's
a lot of turbulence in the sky uh not
just in the business model sometimes but
when we actually do physically get
connected back together and the world
start come a closer place that's where
real opportunity sits.
>> You're talking about the demand so far
this year and you've seen I believe
record demand so far in the first uh
week and a half of January. I'm just
wondering is it mostly still coming from
premium? Is it equal across all tiers?
Is it also an economy to the same degree
that you're seeing in terms of the
robust interest at the top end?
>> It continues to be at the top end. It
continues to be in business. Uh we're
seeing double digit growth in business
at the start of the year. Uh we had our
largest weekly sales in our history.
Just last week, up double digits over
the same week a year ago. So if this
this demand set continues, we're going
to have a great year.
>> So I have to end with this because my
colleagues asked me to do this. the
lounges, the regular lounges, not the
Delta One, they're getting really
crowded. How are you going to manage
that considering that a lot of people
have complaints about that?
>> Well, we've been experiencing that for
the last handful of years and it's a uh
it's a problem with no good deed goes
unpunished. You know, you build
something great and everybody wants to
be in there and there's not not doesn't
feel as exclusive any longer. Uh we've
been working through that for the last
several years. American Express is our
close partner on that. American Express
is building lounges. We're building new
lounges. We got the Delta 1 lounges that
are coming. We're going to continue to
build more supply and more capacity to
take care of all of our great customers.
>> Ed Bastian, thank you so much for being
with us today. Really appreciate
speaking with you. John, I'll send it
back to you. And I did get that in. Ed
Bastion, the CEO of Delta, saying he is
going to address that lounge issue.
>> I got one more, Lisa. Just one more. We
need something to pull into from New
York. Is that something they can figure
out?
>> Okay, I'll put in that request.
>> Thank you, Brao. Thank you very much.
Thank you, Lisa, with the latest on the
ground at Downtown Airlines. Wouldn't
that fix things? They got a new route
into Sardinia as well.
>> I wonder if that has to do with, you
know, everyone's so excited about Sicily
coming after the, you know, the series
White Lotus. There is someone though
that is traveling direct to Bari. Who is
it? I don't know who it is. Someone
someone on the summer months.
>> None of the major airlines though, as
far as I understand. Anyway, the latest
on Delta there and yesterday really the
headline and the big takeaway from that
company story was just how well the
premium cabin is doing and how soft
things are elsewhere. We're seeing that
in the economy. That's exactly what
we're seeing in the economy, which is
why I often call it the Delta Airlines
economy that half the country thinks
it's group one and the other half is
struggling.
>> And when it comes to Delta, they're
putting all that money into those
individuals at the upper echelons who
are able to afford that. I don't even
know if it's a K-shaped economy. I
forgot what analysts said this, but it
almost feels like a lowercase I. It's
everyone and then the small top 10%
[music] right there at the top.
>> Delta Airlines down by about a third of
1% at the pre-market. Coming up, we'll
get you some data, PPI, and retail
sales. [music] We'll catch up with Sarah
House of Wells Fargo live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
>> [music]
>> The opening bell about 60 minutes away.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 negative
by a third of 1%. On the NASDAQ 100 down
by 0.4 on the Russell were down by 210
of 1%. Economic data seconds away. We'll
get another read on inflation [music]
with PPI and a look at retail sales in
America as well. Going into that in the
bond market, yield still rangebound
[music] 10 to 41556.
bond yield to lower by let's call it two
basis points on tens on 30s we're down
by two to 482 with the latest data let's
cross over to Mike McKe for more hey
Mike good morning John well we'll see if
we can't move the needle a little bit
for the equity markets with retail sales
coming in up 610 of a percent after
being flat that's the headline flat in
the month of October these are November
numbers so we're behind remember because
of the government shutdown x autos up
half a percent after uh 4/10 T gain and
uh X autos and gas up 4/10 as well. The
control group which is what we really
care about up 4/10en of a percent that's
up that's down from a 610 gain revised
lower for the month of October. The uh
PPI numbers are not out yet. They're
slow to come out. Uh here we go. Uh
producer price index increased 210 of a
percent in November. Now remember these
are no S September to November numbers
because there were no October numbers
just like with CPI uh the uh PPI for uh
the year let's see if we have an annual
basis number uh 3% for the 12 months
ended in November and that's the
headline now uh if you want to take the
core which uh we usually consider the X
trade one uh the index for final demand
less foods energy and trade services up
2/10en of a percent in November and for
the year up 3 and a2% that is the
largest 12-month increase since rising
3.5% in March. So on the basis of the
PPI uh annual figures it looks like
you're not going to be cutting interest
rates anytime soon and with relatively
strong retail sales uh it seems like
inflation is still going to be on the
menu. Mike, as you indicated, somewhat
dated data, but are we getting a decent
picture of momentum we had into year end
and into the new year? A decent picture
of the overall economy? Well, probably
not in terms of the data that comes in
for the overall economy, but it gives us
a direction. Uh the January meeting,
they've already said they're probably
not going to be cutting, and I would
assume that this kind of data seals
that. And then they'll have two, three
more reports on all these things before
the next meeting in March. So, they'll
have a much cleaner read by the time we
get to uh the end of the first quarter.
Uh just quickly here, uh motor vehicle
sales were up by a percent. Uh sales of
parts and cars, furniture down a tenth
of a percent, building materials up
1.3%. Groceries up just a tenth of a
percent. And remember, we saw in CPI
that uh the grocery price indexes went
up. So, since all this is calculated on
a dollar basis, that's kind of
interesting. Gasoline sales up 1.4%.
Clothing stores up 9/10 and department
stores flat. Department stores down 2.9.
General merchandise flat. This is
November numbers. So these would have
been the Black Friday numbers and it uh
they don't seem to be as good as you
might have hoped for that period of time
in terms of holiday gifts.
>> Might just stand by. I'll get to some of
the price action. I want to come back to
you in just a moment. We'll talk about
the Federal Reserve. Equity futures off
the back of all of this pretty much
unmoved. We're a little bit softer going
into the opening bow. That's where
things stay in the bond market. Looking
across the yield curve, twos, tens, 30s,
yields were lower, still lower by basis
point or two across the curve and in
forex change exchange. Bit of a snooze
for Euro dollar just about unchanged on
the session at 11645.
Mike, let's park the data from park the
price action. I wanted to talk to you
about the universal push back we've seen
to developments around the Federal
Reserve over the past few days to see
all these central bankers sign on to the
same note. What was your reaction to
that, Mike? I I think central bankers uh
are looking at this from the point of
view of what's good for themselves is uh
having the Fed be independent and not
under the control of any politician
because if the Fed is moving interest
rates around it's going to affect
people's currencies and that's going to
affect their economies. Uh so they have
a vested interest in this. It's
interesting that Neil Qashqari in an
interview with the New York Times that's
just out says that J Pal was right that
this is about uh monetary policy the
president's efforts and that uh Powell
explained the situation accurately. Uh
Kashkari saying he doesn't see any
impetus to cut in January. And we might
also mention the little bit of other
news. French Hill who's the chairman of
the House Financial Services Committee
on with us quite often says uh he does
not he anticipates that J. Pal will not
come up to the hill to testify for the
House and Senate uh in what we call the
Humphrey Hawkins testimony because of
the uh president's investigation.
>> There's some tension building. Let's put
it that way, Mike. And it has been
building over the last year. Mike McKe
on the data and on the Federal Reserve.
A lot of foreign central banks signed up
to a letter to defend Chairman Pal and
the independence of the Federal Reserve.
That's on independence. But these
central banks are still accountable to
the governments that they're in, the
countries that they are they are placed
in located. And this was interesting in
watching how this played out in New
Zealand. The prime minister came out
with a note. Now, the New Zealand
Central Bank Governor signed up to that
very same letter. And this is what the
prime minister had to say. The RBNZ has
no role, nor should it involve itself in
US domestic politics. We remind the
governor to stay in her lane and stick
to domestic monetary policy. basically
saying from the foreign affairs
minister, do not weigh into another
country's domestic politics. He put it
pretty bluntly. Stay in your lane. But
you also have to imagine this is a
smaller export-heavy economy. They don't
want to get in the crossfires of what's
going on with this president potentially
as they're dealing with trade issues.
So, it was interesting that a lot of
these central bankers seemed excited to
sign up for this list. It was a very
long list. The ECB was on there. The
Swiss National Bank was on there. But
this is one economy, one place when the
foreign affairs minister is saying that
is not your role. This is my role to
deal with the United States. You
shouldn't have signed up for it and is
actually getting a little bit of a
talking to publicly about it.
>> You might be independent, but you're not
unaccountable. And I think a reminder
coming out of New Zealand overnight.
Sarah House of Wells Fargo joins us now
to talk about some of this economic
data. Sarah, welcome. I was talking to
Mike McKe about that. Getting a picture
for the momentum we had coming into 26.
What does this economy look like?
Yeah. So, I still think we have some
some decent momentum. So, not nearly as
strong as what we were looking at a year
or so ago, but you're seeing that
consumers are out there still spending.
So, I think the the underlying pace of
of income growth has been a bit of a
challenge with just the jobs market
slowing, but you still have transfer
payments and at the end of the day,
consumers still have their jobs, even if
you are seeing a more sluggish jobs
market. So, we're seeing that filter
through in spending. And while I think
you're seeing some underlying
inflationary pressures begin to
dissipate, it's it's only happening
gradually as we saw with the PBI numbers
this morning.
>> The disinflationary momentum is a story
for a lot of people. Sarah, we had City
on the program earlier on this morning.
Veronica Clark's making the argument
that the disinflationary momentum is
going to be so strong it will reopen the
door to rate cuts later this year. In
fact, the Fed will be able to cut three
times. Where are you on the same
argument?
>> Yeah. So, I generally agree. So, we have
two rate cuts in our forecast with I
think further disinflation or at least
inflation resuming its descent. Part of
that story and even if we're not getting
all the way back to to 2% this year, I
think the directional progress will
encourage the Fed to move towards a more
neutral stance when you still have
lingering concerns about the jobs
market. So, even with December's edge
back in the unemployment rate, it's
still up over the past year. It's really
up over the past three years. And so you
combine that with just the the
questionable pace of of job growth where
really we're seeing hiring at at more or
less a standstill. I think there's
enough to make the Fed cautious to to
return policy to I think a stance that
they are are decidedly believing is
closer to neutral. So a lot of questions
about where exactly that is, but I think
most committee members would say we're
not quite there yet.
>> McKe noted a number of times that this
was November's numbers. What do you take
from the fact that the data feels so
outdated at this point?
>> I'd say some data is is better than no
data and even late data is better than
holes in in the data. So I think it's
it's helpful in that regard. But I think
there's still questions in terms of of
how uh how robust this data is just
given, you know, sampling period
shifted, survey response rates um
potentially obstructed by just the
interruption of of the normal course of
of procedure. But I think again what
we're seeing is the inflation picture
it's it's definitely not getting worse.
So even if we're still seeing signs from
the PPI that that price growth remains
rather sticky. So we're still seeing the
the numbers, you know, the core core, so
X food, energy, and and trade services.
It's still down on a year-over-year
basis from where we were a year ago. And
then we're seeing more clearer
improvement from the latest CPI data. So
I think it's still consistent with that
slow, gradual descent in inflation
resuming. I feel like a broken record,
but when do you think we'll start to get
clean readings when it comes to the
government data?
>> Yeah. So, I think it's going to be
closer to to March and you know,
particularly when it comes to the
inflation data where you have some of
the seasonality issues to get through,
not just the shutdown. So, you're just
in a very noisy period for the inflation
picture. So, I think by the time we
start getting the March data, which
won't be until April, there's still
going to be some question marks around
this. So, at least we have some data
now. But I think uh it's it's still I
wouldn't say quite the the cleanest
cleanest data we've had or kind of that
cleanest block of of data that we we'd
like to be making forecasts on and you
know policy makers making decisions on.
>> Sarah, everyone's freaking out about
central bank independence. Can we finish
on that? How credible are those threats?
Now, let's measure that. when you look
at inflation based expectations,
market-based inflation expectations at
the moment. Do you see a credible threat
to central bank independence showing up
anywhere?
>> So, I think it's difficult for for
markets to price that in right now. So,
I think we've seen obviously the
pressure ramp up, but at the end of the
day, we still have a 19 member
committee. And so I think until you see
a much bigger change in in that
committee, you're going to see policy
makers, as we've seen pal say time and
time again, they're going to put their
head down, do their job, that's the best
way that they can can demonstrate that
independence. And I think as long as
we're we're seeing that play out, it's
going you're not going to see a lot of
that in in markets, even if I think it
is in the back of a lot of part market
participants minds
>> without a doubt. Sarah, thank you. Sarah
House there of Wells Fargo. Not to
underplay the seriousness, the nature of
the kind of conversation we're having
over the last few days, but ultimately
if you look at the market's judgment of
how credible these threats are, there
seems to be a lot of faith in the
independence of the Federal Reserve and
the robustness of the institution, the
resilience of the institution, if you
look at the bond market, essentially
unmoved in the face of all of this,
>> right? And a lot of that has to do with
the fact that you have senators coming
out and you have individuals in Congress
that are Republicans that are saying,
"We're not going to move forward with
any sort of Fed pick." until this gets
wrapped up. Chris Nagua was at the
Council of Foreign Relations speech that
uh Mr. Williams, President Williams of
the New York Bank of Fed, a reserve
president gave and he asked this
question. Why is the market shrugging it
off? Do they not care? And basically the
answer was the market just doesn't have
all the information yet. The Fed is
still independent right now. So the
market is just pushing this forward,
pushing it off to something else until
they actually have that credibility
really seriously questioned. 10 year
bond yields right now 415 down on the
session by two basis points. With an
update on stories worldwide this
morning, let's cross over to Vonyie
Quinn for your Bloomberg brief. Hey
Vonyie.
>> Hey John, thank you. So recapping that
data we got moments ago, PPI inflation
coming in higher than expected for
November, rising 3% year-over-year. That
compares to [music] estimates of 2.7%.
Month overmonth numbers were unchanged
for prices, excluding food and energy.
US retail sales as well came in higher
than expected rising 6% from October
[music] compared the estimate for a half
percent gain.
Amazon is looking to reduce what it pays
suppliers ahead of that potential
Supreme Court tariff decision. The
Financial Times reporting the tech giant
[music] is moving to reverse some of the
measures used to ease the impact of
President Trump's levies.
In sports, Mike Tomman has stepped down
as the head coach of the Pittsburgh
[music] Steelers. Tommen had been in the
role since 2007 and was the longest
tenur head coach in the NFL. [music]
He won Super Bowl 43 in just his second
year, but failed to win a playoff game
across the team's last seven
appearances. In his 19 years, he never
finished a season with a losing record.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John
[music]
>> Bonnie, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll catch up with
the Carile co-founder and co-chairman
David Rubenstein plus Yhara with your
morning movers. Tread is digesting
earnings from Wells Fargo, Bank of
America and from [music] City.
[music]
What's exceedingly clear is that
President Trump is not going to let
these tariffs go. we may end up with a
decision today that rules against
certain tariffs, those imposed for trade
deficits and retains other tariffs. So,
it will be really important, I think, to
take some time uh to analyze whatever
the Supreme Court puts out before before
companies make decisions about what to
do next.
>> That was Kate Kuawitz, the former White
House trade official weighing in on the
prospect of getting a Supreme Court
opinion, a ruling [music] on the
Liberation Day tariffs announced by the
president last April. As we count you
down to the opening bell about 45
minutes away, equity futures shaping up
as follows. Slightly softer this
morning. We're down [music] by about
0.5% to 0.4. We're down 0.6 on the
NASDAQ. The financials in focus, the big
banks [music] and others with your
morning movers. Here's Yhira. Hey yhra.
>> Hi John. We start there. A lot of whips
sawing among these bank stocks this
[music] morning. And we start with Wells
Fargo. Shares are down 2.5% after higher
severance costs and a miss on net
[music] interest income hit profits.
Meanwhile, Bank of America, its shares
were positive earlier, now down 1.8%
[music]
despite it beating on most measures and
its equity traders posting their best
fourth quarter ever. And City, the only
one in the green right now among the
banks that have reported it is up 1.8%
[music]
after it posted a big jump in dealmaking
revenue. Fees surged 84% in [music] the
first fourth quarter. Meanwhile, gold,
silver, copper, all hitting record highs
and that is powering mining stocks this
morning. We [music] are seeing bar gold
up 1.9% while first majestic silver is
up 3.5%. And we end on Palo Alto
Networks. Those shares are down 1.5%.
Honor Reuters report that China has
banned the [music] use of its software
over national security concerns. This is
part of a bigger ban involving [music]
about a dozen US and Israeli national uh
cyber security firms. And of course,
this comes as tensions between China
[music] and the US have heightened and
China is pushing its companies to use
domestic providers. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Let's turn back to a big story
of the week so far. JP Morgan CEO Jamie
Diamond warning the DOJ subpoenas of the
Fed risk undermining the central bank's
independence. President Trump
responding.
I think it's fine what I'm doing and we
have a bad Fed person. We should have
lower rates. Jamie Diamond probably
wants higher rates. Maybe he makes more
money that way.
>> David Rubenstein, the Carlile group
co-founder and host of peer-to-peer
conversations on Bloomberg television
joins us now for more. David, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> You've known Chairman Pal for quite a
while. It's very very unusual to see him
engage in such a public way on such a
hot issue like he did on Sunday evening.
What was your reaction?
>> Well, he worked at Carlile for 8 years.
I got to know him quite well and I
thought he was an honorable person and a
very very smart person. Um for several
years he did not respond at all to any
of the uh complaints that President
Trump has had about him and it showed
enormous restraint in my view. I don't
think I could have had that kind of
restraint. Um but I think finally when
uh possibility of criminal action
against him uh was put on the table, I
think he responded in a way that most
people would respond. I think uh anybody
that has that kind of threat over them
is going to probably respond. I think uh
when President Trump had threats of
criminal action against him, he
responded publicly and I'm not surprised
that J Pal responded that way and I'm
sure I would respond that way if
something like that happened to me.
>> In your opinion, do you think there is a
genuine threat to the independence of
the Federal Reserve, a credible one?
>> Well, of course, all that's happened so
far is some subpoenas have been issued.
Uh there's been no decision by a grand
jury, no decision by a prosecutor. Um so
I just don't know uh what will really
happen. My guess is that probably
nothing will really happen in the end.
The reaction of the financial community
has been uh fairly unanimous. I haven't
seen anybody who said well this is a
good idea. Um let's make the Fed less
dependent uh less independent. Haven't
seen anybody say that yet. So my view is
that probably like many things in
Washington are one day wonder stories.
This will probably go away. Um, but I,
you know, but of course I'm not the
person who has subpoenas against me, so
it's easy for me to say that. But I
would suspect any intelligent person who
looks at JPAL and his integrity over
many, many years would conclude that
this is an honest person. Uh, there are
always cost overruns in any building
that you might have. I don't know that
the cost overruns are criminal. Um, and
any building in Washington that's built
has cost overruns. uh the White House
ballroom. Um from reading newspaper
reports, there seem to be cost overruns
there as well. And I don't think that's
anything criminal. So I think you always
have cost overruns in building buildings
and I don't think he's a construction
manager or he's making any money from
the cost overruns. So I don't think
there's anything uh that's criminal in
my view based on what I've seen so far.
>> Having knowing having known Jane Powell
really well, do you think he will stay
on at the Fed to serve out his term in
his governor seat till 2028?
>> I don't want to speak for him. Um I
would say uh he's done a great job for
the country in my view serving as chair
for quite a while. Remember as chair we
haven't had any recessions. He's had to
increase interest rates and decrease
interest rates and normally if you
increase interest rates or decrease them
at some point you get a recession. The
time he's been the chair of the Fed
there's been no recessions. Now it's not
only because of him but I think he's
probably uh you know feels he's done a
service to the country. He's done a
service before in the George Herbert
Walker Bush administration. So I can't
speak for him and I don't want to do
that. But I would if I were me I would
say I've done my job as chairman. I'm
now going to do something else but I
can't speak for him so I wouldn't know.
>> Right. When you do though think about
his tenure at the Fed. He is known in a
lot of individuals that watch the Fed
known as Mr. Transitory. Do you think
this reshapes his legacy now? That video
he put out.
>> Well obviously uh since this has never
happened to any chair of the Fed before,
this will probably be uh getting a lot
of attention. But I suspect that he will
be go down in history as a Fed chair
that explained what he was likely to do
or the Fed was likely to do in
reasonably precise terms before they did
it. And then afterwards, 30 minutes
after they did it, he would explain it
in English. Many Fed chairs talk in
what's called Fed speak so that you
can't understand what they're saying.
And that's intentional. Alan Greenspan
used to tell me that this is the way he
wanted to talk. He didn't really want
people to know exactly what he was
thinking. But Jay Pal is using the
king's English and he actually says
things pretty precisely and it tells you
within 30 minutes what they're doing and
why they did it. So I think to that
extent he's done a pretty good job for
the Fed. And again we haven't had any
recessions and he was not the one who
said let's inject $5 trillion into the
economy to deal with CO. Remember it was
under President uh Trump and President
Biden that $5 trillion was injected in
the economy with no corresponding tax
increases. Of course you're going to get
some inflation. I'm sure he regrets not
saying saying that it was transitory at
the time, but I don't think that was a a
big thing. That's a big part of his
legacy. He did ultimately what was
necessary to be be done. And now
inflation is in reasonable shape. It's
not at 2%. But it's also not at 8%
either. So inflation is a tolerable
rate. Um the 2% target may have been a
little ambitious. Maybe it'll get there,
but certainly now it's inflation is not
the main thing that people are talking
about in in the America.
>> Inflation rate is tolerable for a lot of
people in this country. The price level
is almost unaffordable. There is a
problem with affordability and we're
seeing that being addressed by the
president. City groups been quite direct
about some of the proposals coming out
of the White House saying the interest
rate cap would restrict access to
credit. Has big business got a target on
his back for this year?
>> Well, it's always easy to beat up on big
business because uh you big business is
uh is something that the average person
on Main Street is probably not happy
with from time to time. I think
politicians and political figures for
the last hundred or 200 years in America
have found uh beating up on Wall Street
or beating up on business people a a
very inviting thing to do. And nobody's
ever lost an election that I know of by
beating up on Wall Street. Uh beating up
on Wall Street has never forced anybody
to lose an election. So it's a very
tried and trueue technique and I suspect
people on Wall Street are probably
familiar with it by now. Does it give
Wall Street pause though that the
president is apparently texting on a
regular basis with Zora mom Donnie and
also having calls with Elizabeth Warren
about issues like this a 10% credit card
cap?
>> I think the business community while I
can't speak for the entire business
community obviously um they are used to
President Trump doing these kind of
things and I think they uh understand it
and this is his technique of doing
communicating and so I think they're
they don't criticize it. They don't say
it's great. It's just what he does and
that's how he communicates and they're
used to it by now. So, uh, each person
will have to make their own judgment
about how they weigh it, though.
>> David, always appreciate your time and
your opinion, particularly on this
topic. David Rubenstein there, the Carlo
co-founder and co-chairman. Look out on
Blimbe TV tonight, 9:00 p.m. Eastern
time for the latest episode of the David
Rubenstein Show, peer-to-peer
conversations. That's taking place with
Bill Browder. That's going to be an
interesting one, especially given the
fact that at the end of made a ton of
money in the 90s and Russia and probably
has a lot to say about what is going on
right now between this war on Ukraine.
Jonathan, an hour away almost though, we
have to remember we might get a tariff
decision from the Supreme Court. All
eyes are on that.
>> All eyes are on that like there were
last week and then we didn't get one.
So, we'll see if we actually get one
this week. We're anticipating more
earnings still to come. Morgan Stanley
and Goldman Sachs reporting tomorrow, of
course. And then in Davos, Switzerland,
the headline act, the president of the
United States addressing a World
Economic Forum. Apparently, the big push
is going to be on affordability. It's
going to be an interesting time over the
next week for this country [music] and
for the world. Coming up tomorrow, Jerro
Cassidy of RBC, Jonathan Goliv, Neil
Richardson of ADP, and Sarah Malik of
New. [music] Your equity market negative
by 0.4%. You're opening about 34 minutes
away.